Article 1: FREYR Battery Awarded €100 Million EU Innovation Fund Grant

NEW YORK, OSLO, Norway & LUXEMBOURG--FREYR Battery (NYSE: FREY) (“FREYR”), a developer of clean, next-generation battery cell production capacity, has announced that the company has been awarded a €100 million grant from the European Union (“EU”) to support development of FREYR’s Giga Arctic project in Norway. The grant will be funded through the EU’s Innovation Fund (“EUIF”) as part of the EU’s efforts to promote localized production of battery solutions.

“We are delighted with the news we have received from the EU’s Innovation Fund to support FREYR’s Giga Arctic project,” remarked Tom Einar Jensen, FREYR’s Co-Founder and CEO. “This grant is a recognition that batteries represent the key catalyst of the energy transition supporting regional energy security through faster deployment of renewable energy. Moreover, this significant financial commitment provides timely support to continued development of the Giga Arctic project, which is intended to bring clean battery products to our customers and partners across Europe. We look forward to working with the EUIF as well as the Norwegian Government to unlock further momentum for next generation battery production capacity at GWh scale in Norway.”

Giga Arctic, which has been under development since FREYR’s Board of Directors sanctioned the start of construction in June 2022, is designed to be a 29 GWh nameplate capacity facility based on the 24M Technologies SemiSolidTM manufacturing platform and powered with 100% renewable hydroelectricity.

According to a report recently published by Minviro, a life cycle assessment company and independent third-party commissioned by FREYR, the annual production at the planned Giga Arctic facility in Norway could enable FREYR’s customers to mitigate 80 million tons of CO2 emissions over the batteries’ lifetime when used for renewable Energy Storage Systems (ESS). The projected emissions mitigation corresponds to almost twice the total amount of CO2 emitted in Norway annually.

- The broad support from the EU's innovation fund shows that Norwegian industry and business are very close to innovation and technology development. The five projects that receive support all point towards the transformation we are facing as a society. Enova supports those who go ahead and there is therefore every reason to congratulate, says CEO of Enova Nils Kristian Nakstad

The EU’s Innovation Fund is one of the world’s largest funding opportunities for projects designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The fund targets highly innovative technologies and large-scale, flagship initiatives that can bring more value to Europe in terms of transitioning to a low-carbon continent.

About FREYR Battery

FREYR Battery aims to provide industrial scale clean battery solutions to reduce global emissions. Listed on the New York Stock Exchange, FREYR’s mission is to produce green battery cells to accelerate the decarbonization of energy and transportation systems globally. FREYR has commenced building the first of its planned factories in Mo i Rana, Norway and announced potential development of industrial scale battery cell production in the United States and Vaasa, Finland. FREYR intends to install 50 GWh of battery cell capacity by 2025 and 100 GWh annual capacity by 2028 and 200 GWh of annual capacity by 2030. To learn more about FREYR, please visit www.freyrbattery.com

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

All statements, other than statements of present or historical fact included in this press release, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expected results. Most of these factors are outside FREYR’s control and are difficult to predict. Additional information about factors that could materially affect FREYR is set forth under the “Risk Factors” section in (i) FREYR’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on September 1, 2022 and (ii) FREYR's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 that was filed with the SEC on February 27, 2023, available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

Except as otherwise required by applicable law, FREYR disclaims any duty to update any forward-looking statements, all of which are expressly qualified by the statements in this section, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release. Should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results and projections could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.

Contacts

Investor contact:

Jeffrey Spittel

Vice President, Investor Relations

jeffrey.spittel@freyrbattery.com

Tel: (+1) 281-222-0161

Media contact:

Hilde Rønningsen

Director Communication

hilde.ronningsen@freyrbattery.com

Tel: (+47) 453 97 184...
Article 2: The European Commission is funding 41 clean-tech projects with more than 3.6 billion euros – including several battery projects. According to the list of selected projects, BASF is planning a battery recycling plant in Tarragona, Spain, which has yet to be officially announced.

The 41 clean-tech projects are spread across 15 member states and are subsidised through the EU Innovation Fund. The projects cover many areas, including the battery sector for electric vehicles. According to the Commission, all 41 projects will be operational before 2030 and “have the potential to avoid 221 million tonnes of CO2 emissions in the first ten years of operation.”

The projects were selected following the third call for funding for large-scale projects covering four topics: general decarbonisation, industry electrification and hydrogen, clean tech manufacturing, and mid-sized pilots. In addition to the 41 projects now made public, the Commission says that “other promising but insufficiently mature projects will receive project development assistance from the European Investment Bank.” These will be announced in the fourth quarter of 2023. The fourth funding call with a budget of 4 billion euros is also planned at that time.

Current emobility-related funding recipients include Freyr, Vianode, Stora Enso and BASF. Freyr, for example, will receive 100 million euros from the EU to build its Giga Arctic battery cell factory in Norway. Vianode’s planned factory for graphite-based anode materials, which the EU will subsidise with 90 million euros, will also be located in Norway. Both companies name the subsidy amounts in their press releases. The EU Commission’s list does not show how the 3.6 billion euros are distributed among the 41 projects.

Thus, it remains to be seen how high the subsidy for Stora Enso and BASF will be. The EU supports Stora Enso to build “a commercial scale plant” called Lignode One to produce sustainable bio-based anode material for batteries in Finland. Stora Enso’s “Lignode” technology uses, among other things, lignin-based hard coal from Nordic forest wood. A development cooperation exists with Northvolt, among others.

BASF, meanwhile, will receive funds from the EU to construct a battery recycling plant in Tarragona, Spain, which has yet to be officially announced. According to a brief description in the funding list, this will be the “first industrial deployment of an innovative recycling plant for battery materials based on an innovative pyrolysis for black mass and an innovative hydrometallurgical refining process.” The process technology allows “very high Li recovery rates.”

According to the EU Commission, the 41 projects were selected from 239 applications. About 196 were approved for evaluation as “eligible.” Independent experts then made the final selection based on five award criteria. Decisive factors were the ability to reduce greenhouse gas emissions compared to conventional technologies, the degree of innovation, operational, financial and technical maturity, scalability and cost-effectiveness.

ec.europa.eu, climate.ec.europa.eu (list of projects), ir.freyrbattery.com (Freyr), vianode.com (Vianode)...
Article 3: FREYR Battery Awarded €100 Million EU Innovation Fund Grant

FREYR Battery (NYSE: FREY) (“FREYR”), a developer of clean, next-generation battery cell production capacity, has announced that the company has been awarded a €100 million grant from the European Union (“EU”) to support development of FREYR’s Giga Arctic project in Norway. The grant will be funded through the EU’s Innovation Fund (“EUIF”) as part of the EU’s efforts to promote localized production of battery solutions.

“We are delighted with the news we have received from the EU’s Innovation Fund to support FREYR’s Giga Arctic project,” remarked Tom Einar Jensen, FREYR’s Co-Founder and CEO. “This grant is a recognition that batteries represent the key catalyst of the energy transition supporting regional energy security through faster deployment of renewable energy. Moreover, this significant financial commitment provides timely support to continued development of the Giga Arctic project, which is intended to bring clean battery products to our customers and partners across Europe. We look forward to working with the EUIF as well as the Norwegian Government to unlock further momentum for next generation battery production capacity at GWh scale in Norway.”

Giga Arctic, which has been under development since FREYR’s Board of Directors sanctioned the start of construction in June 2022, is designed to be a 29 GWh nameplate capacity facility based on the 24M Technologies SemiSolidTM manufacturing platform and powered with 100% renewable hydroelectricity.

According to a report recently published by Minviro, a life cycle assessment company and independent third-party commissioned by FREYR, the annual production at the planned Giga Arctic facility in Norway could enable FREYR’s customers to mitigate 80 million tons of CO2 emissions over the batteries’ lifetime when used for renewable Energy Storage Systems (ESS). The projected emissions mitigation corresponds to almost twice the total amount of CO2 emitted in Norway annually.

The EU’s Innovation Fund is one of the world’s largest funding opportunities for projects designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The fund targets highly innovative technologies and large-scale, flagship initiatives that can bring more value to Europe in terms of transitioning to a low-carbon continent.

About FREYR Battery

FREYR Battery aims to provide industrial scale clean battery solutions to reduce global emissions. Listed on the New York Stock Exchange, FREYR’s mission is to produce green battery cells to accelerate the decarbonization of energy and transportation systems globally. FREYR has commenced building the first of its planned factories in Mo i Rana, Norway and announced potential development of industrial scale battery cell production in the United States and Vaasa, Finland. FREYR intends to install 50 GWh of battery cell capacity by 2025 and 100 GWh annual capacity by 2028 and 200 GWh of annual capacity by 2030. To learn more about FREYR, please visit www.freyrbattery.com

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

All statements, other than statements of present or historical fact included in this press release, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expected results. Most of these factors are outside FREYR’s control and are difficult to predict. Additional information about factors that could materially affect FREYR is set forth under the “Risk Factors” section in (i) FREYR’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on September 1, 2022 and (ii) FREYR's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 that was filed with the SEC on February 27, 2023, available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

Except as otherwise required by applicable law, FREYR disclaims any duty to update any forward-looking statements, all of which are expressly qualified by the statements in this section, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release. Should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results and projections could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.

Source: FREYR Battery...
Article 4: This week the EU announced that a total of €3.6 billion is being awarded to 41 so-called large-scale projects through the fund’s latest round. That includes €800 million for clean energy tech manufacturing projects, of which FREYR Battery’s Giga Arctic facility in Norway is one.

“With investments in innovative solutions like these, we deliver on Europe’s green transition goals, support our industry, and bring energy security, safety and prosperity to future generations,” Frans Timmermans, executive VP for the EU’s European Green Deal, said of the “unprecedented investment”.

The money is coming from emissions trading revenues within the EU, and Timmermans said that with the price being put on carbon emissions, “Europe is getting the additional financial firepower that enables these transformative investments”.

FREYR has claimed its planned network of factories will produce some of the cleanest and most sustainable lithium-ion batteries on the market, targeting annual production capacity of 50GWh by 2024 and 200GWh by 2030. The battery cells will be based on the semi-solid electrode technology platform developed by US startup 24M. FREYR is also targeting building a sizeable factory in Georgia, US.

According to an interview with CEO Tom Jensen for this site last year, as much as half of FREYR’s cells could be sold into the stationary energy storage system (ESS) segment, with offtakers to include Nidec ASI, with which the Norwegian company has formed a joint venture (JV).

The NYSE-listed company raised over a quarter of a billion dollars last year in a public offering, and appears to have been successful in raising investment for its plans, although the Scandinavian battery startup with the most prolific track record of raising investment is likely still Northvolt.

Northvolt was also among recipients of grants from the EU Innovation Fund’s total €38 billion pot, with its ESS factory in Gdansk, Poland, selected last summer along with 16 other winners.

Other winners in the latest round include BASF’s recycling facility which the German chemicals company is co-locating with a cathode manufacturing plant. Groundbreaking was held on the cathode plant recently, with dignitaries in attendance including European Commission VP Maroš Šefčovič, who coordinates the EU Battery Alliance manufacturing and value chain initiative.

Energy-Storage.news heard at the tail end of 2022 that although Europe had held a strong head start on the US in terms of getting domestic battery manufacturing plants online, the impact of the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) in the US had been a key driver in seeing that trend reverse somewhat....
Article 5: Network-related error scraping https://www.businesswire.com/news/home/20210719005302/en/FREYR-Advances-Clean-Battery-Cell-Production-in-Norway-with-Customer-Qualification-Plant-Final-Investment-Decision: HTTPSConnectionPool(host='www.businesswire.com', port=443): Read timed out. (read timeout=15)...
Article 6: Reference: 20210736

Release date: 27 June 2022

Promoter – Financial Intermediary

Location

Description

FREYR BATTERY SA

The project concerns the construction and operation of a large plant for industrial scale production of clean lithium-ion battery cells in Norway. The cells are to be sold for making Battery Energy Storage Systems. The project seeks to implement an innovative manufacturing process technology under a technology license agreement that will allow higher resource and energy efficiencies compared to conventional technologies. By the use of renewable power, the project aims to produce battery cells with the lowest carbon footprint. The promoter aims to use sustainably sourced and traceable materials. The project's core strategy is to develop a European battery industry and accelerate the decarbonisation of energy and transportation systems.

Objectives

The project concerns the manufacturing of a new type of advanced li-ion electrodes and battery cells and could make a substantial contribution to the development of a European battery industry. The objective is to cater for the energy transition by supplying the growing demand for Battery Energy Storage Systems with cutting-edge battery cells that offer higher energy density, longer lifetime, improved safety, lower cost, sustainably sourced materials, and near-zero carbon footprint.

Sector(s)

Industry - Manufacturing

Proposed EIB finance (Approximate amount)

not disclosed

Total cost (Approximate amount)

not disclosed

Environmental aspects

The project concerns capital investments for the production of lithium-ion electrodes, cells and batteries, falling under the EIA Directive 2014/52/EU amending the EIA Directive 2011/92/EU. All environmental, health and safety issues including environmental and operational authorisations will be reviewed during the due diligence process.

Procurement

The Promoter has been assessed by the EIB as being a private company not subject to EU rules on public procurement or concessions. However, if at the project appraisal, the EIB were to conclude that the Promoter is subject to the EU public procurement legislation then the Bank would duly inform the Commission Services and would require the Promoter to apply those rules.

Status

Under appraisal - 5/01/2022...
Article 7: Increases plant capacity to 29 GWh, based on $1.6 billion in identified debt financing support, catalyzed by the Norwegian National Battery Strategy and Norway’s Export Credit Agency Eksfin’s indication of up to EUR 400 million in loans and/or guarantees FREYR’s Board of Directors has sanctioned construction of Giga Arctic (combined Gigafactories 1 & 2), the company’s first battery manufacturing facility under development in Mo i Rana, Norway

FREYR is increasing the nameplate capacity of Giga Arctic to 29 GWh in response to improving battery supply-demand dynamics, ongoing commercial success, significant progress in developing supply chain channels for key raw materials and equipment, continued technical and product improvements, and project financing visibility

Earlier today at FREYR’s development site in Mo i Rana, the Norwegian Government outlined its National Battery Strategy, which includes significant support from Export Finance Norway (“Eksfin”) to assist FREYR with project financing of Giga Arctic

FREYR has identified total debt financing support of over $1.6 billion based on visibility from export credit agencies, multilateral development finance institutions and commercial banking partners, exceeding management’s leverage target for the $1.7 billion estimated total capital cost for the expanded Giga Arctic project

FREYR intends to contract approximately 50% of Giga Arctic’s capacity to long-term offtake partners and reserve the remaining volumes to address exponentially growing market demand, providing annual revenue generating capacity of $2 billion upon optimization of production systems and cell chemistry

Giga Arctic is expected to be one of the largest and most efficient battery facilities in Europe, with 50% lower anticipated capital spending per GWh of nameplate capacity and more than 200% higher production per employee than conventional Lithium-Ion battery plants in production today

FREYR is raising its installed annual production capacity target to more than 200 GWh by 2030, twice the company’s previous ambition

FREYR has recently secured a conditional offtake agreement (“COA”) with a major European energy technology customer for 25 GWh of battery cells from 2024 to 2028, in addition to the more than 100 GWh of previously announced COAs

FREYR Battery (NYSE: FREY) (“FREYR”), a developer of clean, next-generation battery cell production capacity, announced today that the company’s Board of Directors (“The Board”) has approved the expansion of the planned Giga Arctic project under development in Mo i Rana, Norway, to an annual nameplate capacity of 29 GWh. FREYR’s Board of Directors has also approved the construction of Giga Arctic. The approval follows substantial completion of detailed plant engineering; the establishment of procurement frameworks with key raw material and capital equipment suppliers; and the announcements of conditional offtake agreements totaling more than 125 GWh from the planned start of production in 1H-2024 through 2030. Groundworks at the site are well advanced and the company has recently started casting foundation structures.

The Board’s decision coincides with the announcement of a letter of intent indicating loans and/or guarantees of up to €400 million from Eksfin, Norway’s export credit agency (“ECA”), and the recently announced National Battery Strategy by the Norwegian Government, which outlines meaningful governmental support for the developing battery industry in Norway.

“If we are to reach the goals in the Paris agreement, batteries will need to be produced in a more sustainable way with the lowest CO2 footprint possible. It is therefore important for Norway to define a clear direction and set ambitious goals for battery production in our country. The National Battery Strategy that we just launched, defines ten areas of key importance that will facilitate private investments so that companies along the entire value chain can set up sustainable and successful businesses in Norway. Our unmatched access to renewable energy makes batteries produced in Norway the greenest in the world. I am therefore very pleased and excited that FREYR Battery is moving along with its plans to establish a Gigafactory in Norway based on state capital and risk relief. It is an important confirmation that public and private partnerships are important to be successful in creating the green industry of the future,” said the Minister of Trade and Industry, Jan Christian Vestre.

“Today marks another significant milestone for FREYR on our path to giga-scale production of clean battery solutions. With our expanded plant capacity, accelerating commercial momentum, and strong support from Eksfin, other ECAs and financial institutions, Giga Arctic represents one of Norway’s largest industrial investments onshore in recent decades,” said Torstein Dale Sjøtveit, Founder and Executive Chairman of FREYR.

Governmental Support and Gigafactory Financing Plan

Today, the Norwegian Government announced the key elements of its National Battery Strategy at FREYR’s facilities in Mo i Rana, Norway. With the expected financial backing catalyzed by this strategy and support from other European governmental entities, FREYR has identified over $1.6 billion of potential debt financing support to fund development of Giga Arctic, including:

A letter of intent received from Eksfin indicating loans and/or guarantees of up to €400 million;

Anticipated loan guarantees exceeding $800 million from ECAs of three OECD countries based on capital equipment order frameworks for Giga Arctic from the same plant equipment suppliers to FREYR’s Customer Qualification Plant;

Indications of support received from multilateral development finance institutions, which include potential loans of $300 million from the European Investment Bank (“EIB”) and $50 million to $100 million from the Nordic Investment Bank (“NIB”), respectively; and

Targeted project financing from a consortium of commercial banks led by initial mandated lead arrangers Societe Generale and DNB, which are now formally launching the project financing process.

In addition, FREYR had $523 million of cash on its balance sheet as of March 31, 2022, and currently has multiple grant applications pending decision.

Tone Lunde Bakker, Chief Executive Officer of Eksfin, added, “Export Finance Norway's most important task is to offer capital and risk relief to the green, Norwegian export industry. Long-term partnerships between state and private capital are needed to realize the transition to a zero-emission society; create local jobs; and take leading positions internationally. FREYR Battery’s factory can play a key role in building a powerful, high-tech value chain within batteries in Norway and the Nordic countries. Eksfin has therefore indicated participation in the financing of the project in collaboration with other financiers and investors. We wish FREYR good luck in the next, exciting phase and look forward to working closely with the growing Norwegian battery industry.”

Giga Arctic Development

The sanctioned Giga Arctic construction project includes eight production lines, a battery testing center, administrative facilities, and infrastructure at an estimated total capital cost of $1.7 billion. The updated cost relative to FREYR’s initial business plan, which was finalized in February 2021, is attributable to the following:

A 150% increase in nameplate capacity on a chemistry equivalent basis to 29 GWh from the initial plan to construct two smaller Gigafactories in Mo i Rana 1 ;

; Technical modifications and enhancements to the plant and its products that are intended to improve operational efficiency and economic returns; and

Inflationary pressures and supply chain challenges.

FREYR has engineered and positioned Giga Arctic to be the most capital efficient battery plant in Europe, with 50% lower estimated capital expenditures per installed GWh of capacity compared to plants currently in operation or under construction. The company also expects Giga Arctic to be the most operationally efficient battery plant in Europe, generating an anticipated 200% higher production per plant employee compared to estimated averages at conventional Lithium-Ion battery facilities. These expected efficiencies are aided by FREYR’s recently announced long-term power purchase agreement (“PPA”) with Statkraft. Giga Arctic is expected to benefit from 100% renewable energy at prices that FREYR estimates to be substantially below those of other battery producing regions, while using less energy in production through the 24M Technologies SemiSolidTM cell manufacturing process and platform.

FREYR is also evaluating additional enhancements to the Giga Arctic development that include module and pack manufacturing, recycling and other applications which could add approximately $250 million of additional capital expenditures. Management expects the above investments to generate highly accretive returns on capital for the project should the company move forward with these initiatives. In addition, the company continues to evaluate its proposed joint venture with Aleees for a Nordic LFP cathode materials manufacturing plant.

Tom Einar Jensen, FREYR’s Chief Executive Officer, concluded, “Since our NYSE listing in July 2021, FREYR has made incredible progress on its goal of providing clean battery solutions to the world through speed, scale, and sustainability. Despite supply chain challenges and inflation, the fundamentals have never been better for the battery industry given the largest secular shift in human history towards the energy transition to address the climate emergency; the immediate need for energy security, localized power generation and storage; and the accelerating adoption of electric vehicles and battery energy storage systems. FREYR is playing a key role in addressing energy cost inflation, energy security and climate change.”

1 Gigafactories 1 & 2 were initially expected to produce NMC battery cells

***

About FREYR Battery

FREYR Battery aims to provide industrial scale clean battery solutions to reduce global emissions. Listed on the New York Stock Exchange, FREYR’s mission is to produce green battery cells to accelerate the decarbonization of energy and transportation systems globally. FREYR has commenced building the first of its planned factories in Mo i Rana, Norway and announced potential development of industrial scale battery cell production in Vaasa, Finland, and the United States. FREYR intends to deliver up to 43 GWh of battery cell capacity by 2025, over 83 GWh of annual capacity by 2028 and over 200 GWh of annual capacity by 2030. To learn more about FREYR, please visit www.freyrbattery.com

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

All statements, other than statements of present or historical fact included in this press release, including, without limitation, statements regarding (i) FREYR’s anticipated path to commercialization and giga-scale production of clean battery solutions; (ii) the development, timeline, capacity and other usefulness of the Giga Arctic project, including annual revenue generating capacity of $2 billion upon optimization of production systems and cell chemistry; (iii) the realization of FREYR’s capital spending plan; (iv) the progress and development of FREYR’s customer relationships and offtake agreements and supply chain partnerships, including the entry into any successful joint ventures with Aleees and FREYR’s intent to contract approximately 50% of Giga Arctic’s capacity to long-term offtake partners and reserve remaining volumes to address exponentially growing market demand; (v) the success of any capital raising paths to fund FREYR’s planned expansion; (vi) FREYR’s ability to convert any conditional agreements, letters of intent, anticipated loan guarantees, indications of support from multilateral development finance institutions and targeted project financing into definitive agreements; (vii) the status of FREYR’s mission to establish over 200 GWh of annual capacity by 2030 and its anticipated total conditional offtake volumes exceeding 125 GWh through 2030; (viii) the success and impact of any support from the Norwegian government for the developing battery industry in Norway; (ix) the success of FREYR’s accelerated commercial momentum; (x) the success of any anticipated debt financing support to FREYR to fund the development of Giga Arctic; (xi) the success of any transition to a zero-emission society and the role of FREYR’s factory in building a powerful, high-tech value chain within batteries in Norway and the Nordic countries; (xii) the ability of any technical modifications and enhancements to Giga Arctic and its products to improve operational efficiency and economic returns; (xiii) Giga Arctic’s status as the most capital efficient battery plant in Europe (and its 50% lower estimated capital expenditures per installed GWh of capacity compared to plants currently in operation or under construction); (xiv) Giga Arctic’s status as one of the largest and most operationally efficient battery plant in Europe, generating an anticipated more than 200% higher production per plant employee compared to estimated averages at conventional Lithium-ion battery facilities in production today; (xv) the expected efficiencies supported by any long-term power purchase agreements that FREYR has announced, including with Statkraft, and any expected benefits from 100% renewable energy at prices that FREYR estimates to be substantially below those of other battery producing regions as a result of such agreements; (xvi) the development and commercialization of 24M Technologies, Inc.’s SemiSolidTM technology, including the use of less energy in production through such technology; (xvii) FREYR’s manufacturing capacity relative to other market participants; (xviii) the ability for any additional enhancements to the Giga Arctic development that could add approximately $250 million of additional capital expenditures or may generate highly accretive returns on capital for the project should FREYR move forward with these initiatives; (xix) FREYR’s progress towards its goal of providing clean battery solutions to the world through speed, scale and sustainability; (xx) the status of the largest secular shift in human history towards energy transition to address the climate emergency; (xxi) the immediate need for energy security, localized power generation and storage; (xxii) the accelerating adoption of electric vehicles and battery energy storage systems; and (xxiii) FREYR’s role in addressing energy cost inflation, energy security and climate change are forward-looking and involve significant risks and uncertainties that could cause the actual results to differ materially from the expected results.

Most of these factors are outside FREYR’s control and difficult to predict. Information about factors that could materially affect FREYR is set forth under the “Risk Factors” section in (i) FREYR’s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on August 9, 2021, as amended, and (ii) FREYR’s annual report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 9, 2022, and available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

Source: FREYR Battery...
Article 8: The Freyr Board has approved the Norwegian company to build the first battery cell factory in Rana, Norway, for production to start in the first half of 2024. Called Giga Arctic, the plant has been designed for an annual capacity of 29 GWh, according to the plan now approved.

+ + This article has been updated. Kindly continue reading below + +

At Mo i Rana, Freyr is already building the so-called CQP (Customer Qualification Plant) production line, which is scheduled to come on stream in the second half of 2022. Freyr intends to use this production to manufacture sample cells for potential customers – to the tune of 2-gigawatt hours.

With the decision now announced by the Board of Management, it is clear that the company’s first large-scale production plant will also be built there – this was final confirmation. The plans have also been adjusted several times. Initially, Freyr wanted to create two smaller factories in Rana, which would have produced NCM battery cells. In the meantime, only one plant is planned (with 150 per cent higher capacity than one of the smaller factories), and Freyr is also reportedly planning a joint venture with Aleees to produce LFP cathode materials.

Freyr says it intends to allocate about half of Giga Arctic’s production capacity to “long-term offtake partners.” The remaining volume will be reserved “to address exponentially growing market demand” – sold to customers without long-term commitments at the best possible price. The Freyr board credits this plan with the potential of $2 billion in sales per year.

For the project, Freyr says it has received funding commitments totalling $1.6 billion, exceeding management’s leverage target. This includes 400 million euros from Eksfin, Norway’s export credit agency (ECA). The Norwegian government’s national battery strategy was also presented at the Freyr event in Mo i Rana.

The Giga Arctic is said to come at around 50 per cent lower investment costs per GWh of nominal capacity. Thanks to the high level of automation – as reported with equipment from British automation specialist Mpac Lambert – production per employee is expected to be 200 per cent higher than in current battery factories.

“With our expanded plant capacity, accelerated commercial momentum and strong support from Eksfin, other ECAs and financial institutions, Giga Arctic represents one of Norway’s largest onshore industrial investments in recent decades,” says Torstein Dale Sjøtveit, founder and executive chairman of Freyr.

By 2030, Freyr aims to have built a total production capacity of 200 GWh. Giga Arctic in Mo i Rana could be expanded in the future: The company is evaluating adding a module and pack assembly and recycling and other applications at the site.

Update 26 August 2022

Freyr has now entered into an important partnership for the equipment of the battery factories planned or under construction. Hana Technology, a South Korean provider of automation solutions for battery plants, among others, is to develop the equipment and automation solutions for the so-called CQP production line (Customer Qualification Plant) in Rana, Norway, as well as for Freyr’s planned gigafactories.

“We selected Hana Technology due to their proven track record with major Korean battery manufacturers. We also experienced, as part of our tender process, that they have the best technical solution to meet our needs for clean battery cell production,” says Freyr CEO, Tom Einar Jensen. “We aim to collaborate and co-create with them, ensuring that we move with speed and scale quickly and make strides towards our goal to become one of the most sustainable battery producers in the world,” he explained.



The two companies have in common that Hana Technology is a pre-qualified supplier of 24M Technologies, and Freyr has also licensed the technology from 24M. The agreement specifies that Hana Technology will support areas that include pouch assembly, formation and ageing, inspection, grading, packaging, as well as scrap-discharge equipment for Freyr’s Gigafactories. Hana Technology will also collaborate with Freyr to review, develop, and improve its technical documentation.

Update 04 October August

Freyr Battery has taken another important step towards building the Giga Arctic battery cell factory in Mo i Rana, Norway: The company has contracted Hent, one of Norway’s largest general contractors and project developers. Hent will be responsible for the design, project management and construction of the 120,000-square-meter battery factory building. Freyr says the contract also includes facilities and infrastructure.

This is not the first collaboration between the two companies: In December 2021, Hent was appointed as general contractor for the first phase in Mo i Rana, the construction of the so-called Customer Qualification Plant

freyrbattery.com, freyrbattery.com (update), freyrbattery.com (update II)...
