Article 1: Cookies on FT Sites

We use cookies and other data for a number of reasons, such as keeping FT Sites reliable and secure, personalising content and ads, providing social media features and to analyse how our Sites are used....
Article 2: [1/2] The logo of carmaker Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles is pictured at the IAA Transportation fair, which opened its doors to the public on September 20, 2022, in Hanover, Germany, September 19, 2022. REUTERS/Fabian Bimmer Acquire Licensing Rights

WOLFSBURG, March 13 (Reuters) - Volkswagen's (VOWG_p.DE) battery needs are covered until 2028 by its three confirmed factories in Europe - the Salzgitter plant in Germany, Northvolt's plant in Sweden and a planned plant in Valencia, board member Thomas Schmall said on Monday.

The carmaker is still targeting 240 gigawatt hours of battery cell production capacity in Europe but could do this with fewer than the originally planned six plants, Schmall said.

"We stick to the 240 gigawatt hours. Whether we need five or six plants depends on the incentive strategy of the countries... this is not decided yet," he added.

The executive said he expects demand for between 60 and 100 gigawatt hours of capacity in North America, but did not give details on how much of this capacity will be provided by Volkswagen-owned plants.

It was a misunderstanding that announcements of new plants in North America meant that the carmaker would do less in Europe, Schmall said, adding it was simply waiting to see what Europe had to offer as a response to the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act (IRA).

The Valencia plant, confirmed last year, is due to begin production in 2026. Volkswagen does not need to start construction of a new plant in Europe until 2025, Schmall said, adding a decision on the next location could be made sooner if a similar tailwind to the IRA materialised in Europe.

The carmaker was standardising the structure of its factories and batteries, but the chemistry of the battery would differ for different models, Schmall said: Batteries for entry-level models will use iron phosphate, while medium-level models will have high manganese content and top models increased silicon content.

With its PowerCo battery unit, Volkswagen wanted to become a significant player but not the only player in the battery space, Schmall added, highlighting that 95% of the battery market is dominated by Asian players.

Reporting by Victoria Waldersee Editing by Miranda Murray, Kirsten Donovan

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles....
Article 3: Volkswagen has told the EU it is making faster progress in building a US battery factory than one in eastern Europe because of huge subsidies made available by the White House – adding to pressure on Brussels to offer bigger green incentives.

Europe’s largest carmaker has warned the EU it is being overtaken in the race to attract gigafactory investment, after Joe Biden announced a package of help to achieve net zero aims worth a total of $369bn (£312bn) under the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA).

Volkswagen is waiting for a response from Brussels before making a decision on whether to invest in the planned eastern European plant, the Financial Times reported.

The global supply of batteries for electric cars is dominated by Chinese, Korean and Japanese manufacturers but the US, Europe and other smaller players such as the UK are scrambling to catch up. Many analysts fear that without battery factories their existing car industries will eventually wither.

The EU has estimated that the market for batteries will be worth as much as €250bn (£223bn) a year by 2025, and several of its member states are offering large subsidies to attract investments by carmakers and battery companies.

However, the IRA subsidies put support from the EU or UK into the shade. Under the US act, battery cell manufacturers will be eligible for an “advanced manufacturing production credit” worth $35 per kilowatt hour of annual capacity. For factories producing at the scale of gigawatt hours in annual capacity, that support could run to billions of dollars a plant.

Volkswagen last week met senior EU officials as part of the European Battery Alliance, a body founded by the EU. The meeting was attended by the powerful EU commissioners, Maroš Šefčovič, Margrethe Vestager and Thierry Breton, who were told by the bosses of the chemicals company Umicore and the European battery producer Northvolt that the EU must speed up its permitting process and respond to the IRA.

Thomas Schmall, a member of Volkswagen’s management board and the head of its components division, said Europe needed to introduce an “IRA matching clause”, in a post on social media about the meeting, which he also attended.

Schmall wrote: “Today, the battery business is led by Asian companies. And while the United States are catching up thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, Europe is more and more lagging behind. The conditions of the IRA are so attractive that Europe risks to lose the race for billions of investments that will be decided in the coming months and years.”

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Business Today Free daily newsletter Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

Volkswagen has planned to build six European battery factories with 40GWh of capacity each. The first two, in Salzgitter, Germany, and Valencia, Spain, are due to start production in 2025 and 2026 respectively.

Volkswagen said: “We are still evaluating suitable locations for our next cell factories in eastern Europe and North America. No decisions have been made yet. We stick to our plan to build cell factories for about 240 GWh in Europe by 2030 but for this, we need the right framework conditions. That is why we wait and see what the so-called EU green deal will bring.”

As well as subsidies, other factors under consideration will include access to green energy at low prices and the availability of skilled workers....
Article 4: The Volkswagen Group is setting benchmarks in the development, testing and production of cutting-edge battery cell technology in Germany. In Salzgitter (Lower Saxony) alone, over 1,000 jobs are to be created by 2023/24 for testing and producing battery cells – 300 at Volkswagen’s development center and pilot line, 700 in a joint venture between Northvolt and Volkswagen to build and operate a battery cell factory. Over one billion euros is to be invested in the Volkswagen Group’s battery cell activities over the same period....
Article 5: Volkswagen Group broke ground Thursday at the first of six battery factories it expects to build in Europe, the official kickoff of a new battery business that will invest $20 billion through 2030 to become a global EV leader.

Volkswagen’s new company, called PowerCo, will be responsible for the automaker’s global battery business, managing the value chain from raw materials to recycling. The automaker expects that the factory in Salzgitter, Germany and the five others planned for Europe will cut its battery costs by half, a key competitive advantage as the global market for EVs intensifies.

The factories and new company are part of Volkswagen’s efforts to ramp up EV production worldwide. Earlier this week. the world’s second-largest automaker announced plans to grow its business in China with “some major investments” and a hiring spree at the Chinese office for CARIAD, Volkswagen’s in-house automotive software arm.

Volkswagen said battery cell production will begin in 2025 at the Salzgitter factory, which will serve as the standardized model for future factories, making it easier to replicate and scale. PowerCo will locate its second cell factory in Valencia, Spain and is considering expanding the model to North America. Locations for the four other European factories have not been announced.

PowerCo will manage Volkswagen Group’s international factory operations, develop cell technology, vertically integrate the value chain and supply the factories with machinery and equipment. The Salzgitter plant is expected to supply about 500,000 EVs. Together, the new factories planned for Europe could supply roughly 3 million EVs.

Volkswagen said PowerCo and partners will invest more than 20 billion EUR ($20.34 billion) by 2030 and employ up to 20,000 people in Europe. Additional projects include developing storage systems for the energy grid.

VW CEO Herbert Diess called the launch of the company a “strategic milestone.”

“Establishing our own cell factory is a mega-project in technical and economic terms,” Diess said in a statement. “It shows that we are bringing the leading-edge technology of the future to Germany.”...
Article 6: Volkswagen is consistently continuing its e-mobility strategy: to kick off its battery offensive, the Group broke the ground for its first cell factory in Salzgitter today in the presence of German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. Production will start in 2025. With immediate effect, responsibility for global battery business is to be held by the newly created company “PowerCo”. In addition to cell production, the new company will be responsible for activities along the entire battery value chain. Up to 2030, PowerCo is to invest more than €20 billion together with partners in the development of the business area, to generate annual sales in excess of €20 billion and to employ up to 20,000 people in Europe alone....
Article 7: The Volkswagen Group and its battery company PowerCo SE founded in July 2022 intend to accelerate the build-up of their global battery business through rapid expansion to North America. Volkswagen CEO Oliver Blume and the Canadian Minister for Innovation, Science and Industry, François-Philippe Champagne, signed in Wolfsburg today an Addendum to the non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) of August this year to identify suitable sites for a cell factory in Canada. The two parties will continue their cooperation in the areas of battery value creation, raw material supply chains and cathode material production which had been established in August. Furthermore, PowerCo and materials technology group Umicore have agreed to investigate a strategic supply agreement on cathode material for North America. In September, the two companies had announced that they would cooperate in Europe by forming a joint venture for precursor and cathode material production....
Article 8: The Volkswagen Group has entered into three more strategic partnerships, further strengthening its position in the field of batteries. The new partners are the leading materials technology group Umicore, the battery specialist 24M Technologies, and cleantech company Vulcan Energy Resources Ltd. Although these three partnerships are independent from each other, they share a common goal: The industrialization of battery technology and the volume production of even more sustainable, cutting-edge batteries. The Volkswagen Group is consistently implementing its technology roadmap for the in-house development and production of battery cells, as presented at its Power Day earlier this year. In Europe alone, the Group plans to build six Gigafactories by 2030....
