Article 1: BMZ Group has introduced TerraE as a global brand for lithium-ion cells. The batteries – primarily with NMC/NCA or LFP cell chemistry – are also to be used in electric vehicles. However, plans have apparently changed.

+ + Kindly see our update below + +

BMZ Group (which stands for Batteries Assembly Centre in German) took over the battery cell consortium TerraE at the end of 2018, and BMZ now wants to offer “lithium-ion cells of the highest quality worldwide” under the TerraE label.

Since the TerraE takeover, the plans have changed a lot. In 2018, it was still said that it wanted to start local cell production in Germany from 2020. This deadline was obviously not met; in 2018, the global pandemic was not yet foreseeable. However, the TerraE cells are now no longer to be produced in Germany at all, but “on existing lines from tier-one suppliers in Asia”. The specifications of these cells would be defined at BMZ by “managing directors, engineers and technicians”.

BMZ says that these are to be round cells in a wide range of common sizes so that the right solution is to be found for every application. The TerraE cells are to have “excellent power density and durability” with a low self-discharge rate.

NMC/NCA cells and LFP cells are to be offered in “almost any size”. The NMC/NCA cells are to be available in the two variants High Energy and High Power. High Energy with its high energy density and service life is said to be suitable for electric cars and energy storage, while High Power with its high charge and discharge rates is more suitable for power tools.

On the TerraE homepage, the four sizes are named as 14500, 18650, 21700 and 26650; the first two digits indicate the diameter of the round cell in millimetres, the three following digits the length. There is also some key data on different versions of the battery in the 18650 and 21700 formats.

Update 25 February 2022:

In order to support the distribution of the TerraE cells, BMZ has entered into a cooperation with the specialist in battery cell analysis, Batemo, whose tools BMZ has already been using for some time.

In the next step of the cooperation, Batemo will support BMZ in the distribution of its round cells of the global battery brand TerraE: The measurement data, reports and simulation models that Batemo creates and sells are “essential for the work of development departments in battery manufacturing”. The information and simulations provided by Batemo accelerate the development work as

development work, as data is immediately available that would otherwise only be determined in elaborate and lengthy tests by battery manufacturers.

For its part, BMZ will add cell measurement data packages, detailed cell analysis reports and simulation solutions from Batemo to its portfolio.

pressebox.de, terrae.com (both in German), update: bmz-group.com...
Article 2: The BMZ Group develops and produces high-tech battery systems, which are installed worldwide in the most diverse products of well-known brands. In addition to OEM products, BMZ also manufactures battery systems with its own brands. As a battery manufacturer and innovation leader, the latest technologies and production processes are always integrated into the processes in order to continuously increase the performance of the batteries.

The BMZ Group has over 25 years of expertise in the electronics and battery industries and offers a unique one-stop-shop offering that covers all components of the value chain from a battery to after-sales....
Article 3: In recent months, Europe has been shaping up as a hotspot of battery manufacturing activity with a flood of gigafactory announcements coming from incumbents and newcomers to the market. With a clear strategy outlined to reduce its dependence on Asian battery cell imports, Europe is set to host around 35 gigafactories by 2035, according to the latest predictions.

The newest project announcement has come from Anglo-Korean battery maker Eurocell, which yesterday said it will build its first European gigafab. The extraordinary aspect of Eurocell’s plan is that it promises to start manufacturing at scale within just 12 months, thanks to the company's “proven, production-ready technologies.”

With an initial £600 million (€716 million) investment planned in two phases, Eurocell intends to supply European energy storage, automotive, e-mobility and customer electronics industries. The first phase will begin producing battery cells at scale by early next year for existing customers, Eurocell announced. In parallel, a bespoke facility will be constructed on the same site capable of producing more than 40 million cells per year by 2025.

Eurocell says it is looking at potential sites for its European manufacturing base and will make a final choice depending on government support and investment. “We are actively seeking a European manufacturing base and are in advanced discussions with sites in the UK, Netherlands and Spain,” said the company's CEO for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Recardo Bruins. “With the right level of central engagement and support we are keen to take advantage of the rapidly growing European market as quickly as possible.”

In return, the manufacturer said in a press release to announce the fab, the host country will benefit from “the creation of hundreds of direct and indirect jobs, transferring vital skills from Korean battery experts and boosting the economy in a strategic sector crucial to achieving Europe’s net zero ambitions.”

Eurocell has two product lines that it says can deliver better performance than conventional lithium-ion batteries. Its ultra-fast charging “UFC” battery is able to capture any input charge under any condition at a 10C rate, has a long cycle life of more than 5,000 cycles, and is 100% safe in the event of impact, penetration or shocks, so no there is no risk of thermal runaway and self-ignition, the company claims. The UFC batteries have a lithium-titanate-oxide anode which, according to Eurocell, allows for that long cycle life and a 25-year-plus lifespan, and a lithium-nickel-manganese-oxide cathode. The product's weak point is low energy density, which is why lithium-titanate batteries are usually deployed only in bulky vehicles, where space is less of an issue than it is in passenger cars.

The manufacturer's ultra-high capacity “UHC” battery excels at capacity, according to its developer, and is said to outperform conventional lithium-ion batteries by 150% by virtue of its silicone-graphite composite anode. That feature comes at a cost, however, and the UHC battery costs more than 30% more than conventional alternatives. Eurocell says its batteries have a wide operating temperature range, from -20 to 50 degrees Celsius, making them well-suited for use in extreme weather and without a grid network.

Popular content

Eurocell is by no means alone in its ambition to secure a slice of the European battery market. According to data from the EU's important projects of common European interest (IPCEI) fund, which aims to promote critical projects including battery production in Europe, a massive build-up and expansion of energy storage production capacity is being planned.

E-mobility: A greener road to transportation Urban transportation is key to modern civilization. But it has come at a cost, contributing to a dangerous carbon footprint, high levels of smog, a growing inequality gap, and the destruction of some of our most fragile environments. Thus, in the first quarter of this year, pv magazine’s UP Initiative will focus on the rise of e-mobility and how it can complement the renewable energy transition. Read our coverage here.

The annual production volume of lithium-ion cells in the EU's member states – plus Norway and EU accession state Serbia – amounted to around 35GWh in 2020, around 15% of the global total. That figure is expected to rise to 600-870GWh – 43% of the estimated world market – by the end of the decade.

First movers

The companies leading the charge in Europe are Tesla, Northvolt, and LG Chem, according to Scottish consultancy Delta-EE, which has estimated they will supply 27% of the bloc's li-ion production capacity in Europe by 2030. In terms of where the factories will be built, Germany is the top location so far, with France and Italy expected to become the second and third biggest markets by 2030 in terms of annual manufacturing capacity, overtaking Hungary, which is currently Europe's second largest battery manufacturing state.

While it is hoped enormous demand for li-ion cells in the automotive industry in the years ahead will be met through the planned expansion and development of production capacities, the supply of batteries will also hinge on sufficient availability of semiconductors and raw materials. The first noticeable deficits emerged for nickel last year and shortfalls of up to 50% in cobalt, copper, lithium and graphite are forecast for next year and 2024. As a result, US analyst BloombergNEF's recently published 2021 Battery Price Survey forecast an increase in li-ion cell prices this year after decades of declining prices.

“To counteract the threat of raw material shortages, recycling capacities are being successively built up, the utilization of alternative raw material deposits is being evaluated, and research is being conducted on novel cell chemistries that use fewer or no critical raw materials,” the European Union's IPCEI fund said in its quarterly market analysis....
Article 4: The BMZ Group, the largest producer of lithium-ion battery systems in Europe, takes over the majority of TerraE, with the goal to build the first cell production in Germany by 2020. The company, which was originally founded with four shareholders, will in future be managed by Sven Bauer, CEO & Founder of the BMZ Group, and will resume its business operations.

In addition to the €120 million that BMZ is already investing in the expansion of battery production lines, the global player continues to pursue the clear path to placing cell production in its home country of Germany. If Germany, more than ever, needs its own cell production, then BMZ, as the largest buyer of Asian cells to date, is the best shareholder that one can have on board for this challenge.

"We are pleased to be able to continue the plans for a German cell production through the takeover of TerraE in order to cover the enormous economic demand for battery cells in our own country," says Sven Bauer.

"Especially in the Electromobility segment, we will use the cells produced by TerraE in the future to build high-tech battery systems for BMZ automotive customers," Bauer concluded.

BMZ already supplies Germany's largest electric vehicle fleet with lithium-ion battery packs. Even newcomers, who have announced the first mass-market e-vehicles for 2019, rely on the 25-year experience of the Lower Franconian battery experts.

Developments of the consortium Fab4Lib are progressing

The Fab4Lib consortium led by TerraE Holding, consisting of 19 European companies and institutes, will be continued with all partners. As planned, Fab4Lib will deliver results in 2019 on competitive production in the area of lithium-ion technology, which will be incorporated directly into large-scale serial production of battery cells. The funding project also maintains talks with several federal states regarding a location decision.

Production start 2020

A total investment of around €300 million were already promised by BMZ for the 4GWh output planned in the first phase of expansion. In the medium-term TerraE aims for a cell production with a volume of 8GWh....
