Article 1: On May 30, 2023, ACC (Automotive Cells Company) inaugurated its first gigafactory for electric vehicle batteries in Billy-Berclau/Douvrin in the Hauts-de-France region. ACC represents the culmination of the collaborative effort between TotalEnergies, Stellantis and Mercedes-Benz, and should accelerate Europe's transition towards a sustainable mobility accessible to all. Check out the infographic to find out more.

Founded in 2020, ACC is a joint venture between Stellantis, Mercedes-Benz and TotalEnergies, through its affiliate Saft, which is behind the technology used by ACC. ACC is positioned as a key player in the battery industry to equip high-performance, low-carbon electric vehicles that are accessible to the greatest number of people....
Article 2: Stellantis has officially confirmed plans to build a third Automotive Cells Company (ACC) battery factory in Termoli, Italy. For this purpose, Stellantis’ existing engine plant will be converted into a battery factory.

By 2030, the joint venture of Stellantis, Total and, since September 2021, Mercedes-Benz, aim for total battery cell capacities of at least 120 GWh. The Termoli plant will have a capacity of 40 GWh in this, while two other ACC plants in Douvrin (France) and Kaiserslautern (Germany) are planned to be upgraded from their initial 24 GWh each to 40 GWh each to complete the bill.

The move to turn the Termoli engine plant into a battery cell factory had been in the offing for a long time. At the “EV Day” last July, Stellantis CEO Carlos Tavares confirmed that the group had concluded a corresponding agreement on the future of Termoli with the Italian government.

“We are grateful to everyone involved in this investment to secure the future of the great community in Termoli,” Tavares now says, according to the latest news release. “Transforming the existing plant to help support a more sustainable future positions ACC as the European leader in battery manufacturing and reaffirms, thanks to the collaboration with the Ministry of Economic Development, Italy’s role in supporting Stellantis’ transformation to a sustainable mobility tech company.”

It is unknown when Stellantis or ACC will comment on further plans for Termoli and the potential sites 4 and 5. So far, the finalisation of plans for Termoli is still “subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals”, Stellantis writes.

What is clear, however, is that the entry of Mercedes-Benz is now signed and sealed, and in this case, the regulatory approvals have been granted. The “agreement to include Mercedes-Benz as a new equal partner with TotalEnergies/Saft and Stellantis” has been concluded, according to the statement.

Update 29 June 2022

Details on the timetable for Automotive Cells Company’s (ACC) third battery factory in Termoli, Italy, have emerged following a union representative meeting with Stellantis. The conversion of Stellantis’ current engine plant in Termoli into a battery factory will begin in 2024, with production to start by 2026. ACC expects the battery factory to reach total capacity in 2030 with around 2,000 employees.

However, the schedule will also significantly impact employment at the site. Since Stellantis will phase out engine production in large parts in 2024, but battery production is not to start on a smaller scale until 2026, the union expects layoffs. According to Reuters, up to 1,000 employees will lose their job at the peak before 2,000 workers are expected to return to the plant in 2030. According to union sources, some “premium” internal combustion engines will still be built until 2026 – but with the start of battery production, that will also be the end of the line there, so that the areas can also be converted as a result.

Gianluca Ficco of UILM told Reuters that Stellantis had assured unions that all Termoli workers would be employed at the new Gigafactory. “This is good, but not enough, clearly we want a formal and binding commitment by ACC,” he said. “Then we’ll have to sort out how to manage temporary layoffs.” In addition to retraining, employees will be offered to work at the battery plant in Douvrin, France, for up to six months.

A Stellantis spokesman confirmed to the news agency that unions had been given an update on development plans for Termoli but did not comment on the detailed information.

stellantis.com, reuters.com...
Article 3: A view shows the ACC logo at the gigafactory of Automotive Cells Company (ACC), a joint venture of Stellantis, TotalEnergies and Mercedes, in Billy-Berclau-Douvrin, northern France, May 30, 2023. REUTERS/Pascal Rossignol Acquire Licensing Rights

TORONTO/PARIS, Aug 1 (Reuters) - French-based Automotive Cells Co (ACC) is in early talks with officials in Canada and the United States on setting up a battery manufacturing plant in North America, an ACC spokesperson told Reuters on Tuesday.

ACC is a joint venture between Stellantis (STLAM.MI), Total Energies (TTEF.PA) and Mercedes-Benz Group (MBGn.DE).

Its representatives met with officials from the Quebec government in Canada, from the mayor's office in the city of Mirabel in Quebec, and with representatives of the federal government in the province in May this year, according to the provincial and federal government lobby registry.

The lobbying efforts were to enquire about direct funding, incentives and grants related to site selection, development and construction of a new battery processing facility in the province of Quebec, according to public documents.

"ACC is conducting simple exploratory studies, without commitment. We are focused on executing our already very ambitious European industrial and technological roadmap," a company spokesperson told Reuters in a statement.

Canadian government officials were not available for an immediate comment. Officials from Invest Quebec declined to comment.

ACC said it was exploring plans in North America but gave no details on talks it has held in the United States.

The federal and provincial government lobby registry showed that the talks have terminated. According to a person familiar with ACC's thinking, the discussions are still under way, "but they may be complicated in the light of what happened between Stellantis and LG and the Canadian government."

The source was not authorized to discuss the matter publicly and requested anonymity.

Last month , Stellantis resolved a dispute with the Canadian government over subsidies to build an EV plant with its South Korean LG Energy Solution , under which the project could receive incentives up to C$15 billion ($11 billion).

ACC, which was launched in 2020, has announced electric-vehicle battery plants in Germany, France and Italy with a 7 billion-euro ($7.7 billion) investment.

Global auto companies and EV battery makers have been eying the North American market to set up new manufacturing plants, as Canadian and the U.S. governments roll out incentives to manufacturers, in an effort to lower their reliance on China for critical minerals.

In Canada, the provincial government of Quebec is hoping that its proximity to the U.S. port cities will help it gather some investments in the EV battery space to its province. The government has been funding lithium explorers and battery manufacturers.

Reporting by Divya Rajagopal in Toronto and Gilles Guillaume in Paris; Additional reporting by Giulio Piovaccari in Milan and Allison Lampert in Montreal Editing by Denny Thomas, Hugh Lawson and Matthew Lewis

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles....
Article 4: ACC, the Franco-German initiative comprising PSA, Opel and Saft, has received funding notifications from the Federal Ministry of Economics and Technology (BMVi) and the state of Rhineland-Palatinate to start constructing a battery cell factory in Germany as part of the EU’s Battery IPCEI.

The federal and state governments are funding the project with a total of 436.8 million euros. They expect to see the joint venture Automotive Cell Company (ACC) start making batteries at the Opel plant in Kaiserslautern in two years.

Many steps have preceded the handover of the funding notification. ACC was founded at the end of 2018 in expectation of the European call for battery manufacturing, then still running under the catchphrase “Battery Airbus”. In December 2019, the EU Commission approved the first round of the official ‘Battery IPCEI’ as an “important project of common European interest.” At that time, a total of €3.2 billion in funding was earmarked for pan-European research and innovation projects from seven member states on all segments of the battery value chain.

In the case of ACC, the Franco-German consortium fired the starting gun to kick-off pilot production in January 2020 at a Saft facility in France. The partners will develop cell technology there before beginning production at scale at the actual battery plants in Douvrin and Kaiserslautern, each with a volume of 24 GWh per year.

The funding decision for 436.8 million has now been handed over to ACC, which PSA, its subsidiary Opel and TotalEnergies subsidiary Saft officially established in September 2020 for battery cell production. The sum already includes 51 million euros from the state of Rhineland-Palatinate, so the BMWi is taking over around 386 million euros. The companies involved in the joint venture are investing over two billion euros for this purpose.

At the handover ceremony, German Economics Minister Peter Altmaier spoke of a “very important milestone” and repeated the ambition for “the most innovative, sustainable and efficient batteries to come from Germany and Europe.” He added the new battery cell plant would secure around 2,000 jobs and, in future, produce battery cells for around 500,000 electric vehicles annually. “With batteries made in Germany, we secure the added value and jobs of tomorrow!” Altmaier said.

ACC CEO Yann Vincent sees an important step in the company’s still young history. “This vote of confidence from the German authorities reinforces our ambition to become a European leader in the development and manufacture of batteries for electric vehicles and to enable clean and affordable mobility for all,” Vincent said. “The agreement signed with the German government reflects this ambition.”

The first phase of construction will lead to 8 GWh output and is scheduled to start in 2023. Battery production in Kaiserslautern is expected to begin in 2025, according to Ralph Wangemann, Opel’s Managing Director of HR and Labour. Subsequently, two more blocks with eight GWh each are to be built to reach the targeted production of 24 GWh.

On Linkedin, however, ACC mentions a second “gigafactory”, the one in France, set to start producing battery cells in 2024, in line with a previous target. The company added that the second plant “should allow us to reach our production objective of 48GWh by the end of 2028.” We assume this is the total production.

Back in Germany, the BMWi announced all five approved projects from the first battery IPCEI have started. For the second battery IPCEI that saw Tesla competing as well, six of eleven projects are underway. These are also expected to receive funding notices “in the coming weeks,” the ministry said.

With reporting from Sebastian Schaal, Germany.

bmwi.de, nachrichten-kl.de (both in German), linkedin.com (ACC statement)...

Article 1: Why did this happen?

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy....
Article 2: Battery manufacturing behemoth, CATL, shared news that its upcoming plant in Thuringia, Germany has received 2nd partial approval for cell production. This milestone brings the Chinese company one step closer to opening its first battery manufacturing facility outside of China later this year.

Contemporary Amperex Technology Co Ltd., better known as CATL, is a global energy technology company and the leading EV battery manufacturer in China. It’s expansive presence in the battery world has helped solidify its reign as the world’s largest by installed battery capacity for a fifth-straight year.

The company has made recent efforts to integrate more sustainability into the battery manufacturing process, announcing a new $5 billion recycling facility as well as a zero-carbon plant in China. Despite these new facilities to support its goal of global carbon neutrality, CATL has yet to expand outside its home in China… at least for now.

In 2019, CATL broke ground on a new battery manufacturing plant in Thuringia, Germany which will be known as Contemporary Amperex Technology Thuringia GmbH (CATT). The plant is on schedule to begin battery cell production before year’s end, and should create up to 1,500 jobs in the German state.

However, there is still some red tape and some dotted lines to sign before CATL can start making batteries in Germany. But with today’s news, the company is ever-closer.

Thuringia’s Minister of Environment, Energy and Nature Conservation, Anja Siegesmund, handing permit to Matthias Zentgraf, CATL’s President for Europe / Source: CATL

CATL approved for battery cell production in Germany

The battery manufacturer announced this latest announcement in a press release out of Germany today, marking progress of its European expansion despite the woes of the pandemic. Matthias Zentgraf, CATL’s President for Europe, spoke to the 2nd partial approval in Germany:

CATT provides a fundamental impetus for the urgently needed energy transition, and we are glad to be the first company to receive approval to manufacture batteries ‘Made in Germany.’

In addition to being CATL’s first battery manufacturing plant outside of China, CATT will also be the first to arrive in Germany. German Ministers like Wolfgang Tiefensee hope this initial footprint can lead to further expansions in the state and more battery manufacturers calling Germany home:

For Thuringia, CATT is one of the most important industrial investments in recent decades. At the same time, the project could be the initial spark for the emergence of a ‘Battery Valley Thuringia,’ as the first batch of CATL’s supplier companies have settled around the area.

The initial CATT footprint will consist of two buildings – G1, an existing building CATL purchased from another company where battery cells are assembled into modules, and G2 – a new plant built by CATT where the cells will be produced. The latest approval from the press release pertains to a successful permit issued for the cell production of G2.

To further promote sustainability, the CATT plant will generate a portion of its power from solar panels on its roof. CATL shared that it will invest a total of 1.8 billion euro (~$1.96 billion) in the German plant, with a goal to eventually achieve 14 GWh of annual battery capacity and provide over 2,000 jobs.

CATL’s battery cell production in Germany is expected to begin before the end of 2022....
Article 3: Projects are being launched by newcomers like FREYR and Northvolt, automotive OEMs like Tesla and VW, and established cell producers from East Asia like BYD, LG Chem and CATL. Most planned capacity is set to go to the EV market rather than stationary energy storage, but a bottleneck in the supply of the former has knock-on effects on the latter.

CATL this week announced a second battery gigafactory project in Hungary, after its first in Germany which it told Energy-Storage.news was ‘going smoothly as planned’ and is set to start battery cell production by the end of 2022 as scheduled.

However, many projects will not open on time according to analysts looking at the market.

A snapshot of Europe’s gigafactory projects, taken from Dr Heiner Heimes’ ‘Battery Atlas’ of the European sector. Image: Battery-News.De.

Long lead times

Dr Heiner Heimes, an academic specialising in battery production at RWTH Aachen University in Germany, and co-author of Battery-News.De‘s reports on the topic, told Energy-Storage.news that long lead times for equipment are proving a major challenge.

“Nearly all of the projects have some delay, though not all talk about it. But if you look at the current delivery times it’s clear we’ll see delays because it’s very hard right now to get the different components for the production equipment,” he said.

“But, these delays won’t be critical. A delay of three or six months won’t lead to investors saying ‘we have to stop everything’. And the good thing is, we haven’t seen one project that’s been cancelled entirely.”

Another analyst, research firm Delta-EE’s head of flexibility and storage Jon Ferris, did suggest that some gigafactories might not open at all. He cited a shortage of lithium carbonate as the main bottleneck affecting plans, and that some of the earliest projects have switched to producing lithium iron phosphate (LFP) batteries due to shortages in nickel, manganese and cobalt (NMC).

Delta-EE’s data shows that roughly a quarter of the c.40 major gigafactory projects, outlined in Battery-News.De‘s map, have been delayed. But many have also increased their nameplate capacity plans so overall the picture is still one of growth rather than volumes being pushed back.

First pulled gigafactory project?

One project which has has been widely reported as substantially delayed or even pulled entirely is that of Chinese company Farasis Energy, partner to automotive group Daimler, in Bitterfeld-Wolfen, Germany. An initial production start date of 2022 was reportedly pushed to 2024 and there are now doubts it may happen at all.

Outlet Mitteldeutsche Zeitung reported in May that the urban development contract between Farasis and the local council for the project had been terminated, citing official statements by both parties. But, as Dr Heimes alluded to, plans for a gigafactory project in Europe have not been officially cancelled by the company.

FREYR Battery

One of those to have both pushed back its initial planned start date for commercial production but doubled annual production capacity targets is Norway-based gigafactory company FREYR Battery. Company presentations as recent as February 2022 expected the start-up of production lines in its first gigafactory in late 2023 while the company is now targeting the start of production in the first half of 2024.

However, CEO Tom Jensen told Energy-Storage.news in a recent interview that this change in timeline was due to the company’s capital raise through going public last year happening 4-5 months later than planned, along with the process to combine and optimise its first two gigafactories into one.

“Given Covid, given everything, we like to say that we’re reasonably in line with what we’ve said previously. Of course, there is a month here and there because of things like the China shutdown and so on, but we’ve been able to mitigate the worst of that. In that way we can get up to the nameplate capacity a steady run rate of volume more or less in line with what we’ve been saying before,” he said.

“But it’s been a very difficult environment in which to do that. So when we’re saying that we’re reasonably on track, of course, it’s not one-to-one but it’s roughly there.”

Discussing how the company has been able to double capacity targets, he explained: “We see that we can upscale production with the 24M platform, that we have a replicable industrialisation blueprint which can be exported to other jurisdictions, and of course we see that both the incentives and demand in the market are booming.”

Kontrolmatik

In the same press release announcing an expansion of its planned US facility, Turkish company Kontrolmatik Technologies said its LFP gigafactory on home soil ‘…will begin production by the second quarter of 2023’.

When asked if this meant a delay, considering previous statements by the subsidiary responsible for the projects that its first phase of capacity would ‘head to production by end of 2022‘ and ‘be fully operational by 2022 Q4‘, Kontrolmatik’s USA CEO Bahadir Yetki told Energy-Storage.news:

“There are no delays in our factory construction in Turkey indeed as planned. Factory will be completed at the end of this year, but commercial production will start as of second quarter of 2023 following a quarter of commissioning, training, testing and certification.

“Factory will be finished by the end of 2022 to start its production but commercial production will take another 3 months of pilot production, testing and certification. You can still accept end of 2022 as the completion of the construction and start of the production. We will only start “selling” by the 2Q 2023. If we can make all testing and certification ready before that we can always start commercial operations earlier.”

Changing battery chemistry to get around lithium shortages

One way to get around delays due to difficulties in securing the raw materials needed for production is to switch battery chemistry. Ferris and Dr Heimes both pointed to the switch to LFP amongst some projects although Dr Heimes said the majority are still planning for NMC ones, which have a higher energy density reflecting the market’s focus on EVs.

But shortages in lithium carbonate may open up an opportunity for non-lithium batteries which can at least partially slot in to lithium battery production lines. The founder of potassium-ion battery startup Alex Girau recently pitched its technology as the one most well-placed to do this.

Handful of gigafactory projects online this year

Lithium-ion gigafactories reported to start production this year in Europe include CATL’s in Germany, a second facility in Hungary from SK Innovation, and two in Germany and France from from Automotive Cells Company, a new company backed by Saft, Stellantis and Mercedes.

But with announcements generally only revealing the annual production capacity for latter stages of facilities’ ramp-up, it is unclear how much production capacity these will cumulatively add initially....
Article 4: Contemporary Amperex Technology Co., Limited (CATL) officially announced today a massive new battery plant investment in Europe.

The Chinese manufacturer intends to invest €7.34 billion ($7.5 billion) to build a 100 GWh EV battery plant in Debrecen, Hungary. Once approved at the shareholder meeting, construction of the first production facilities will start before the end of this year.

That would be CATL's second battery plant in Europe, as the first one (much smaller) is expected to start production this year in Erfurt, Germany (8 GWh annually initially and 14 GWh annually in the future). This project was started in 2019.

According to CATL, the factory in Hungary will produce cells and modules (undisclosed chemistry) for European automakers. The location is in relatively close proximity to some plants of CATL's customers, including Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Stellantis and Volkswagen. Mercedes-Benz specifically said that it is the first and the biggest customer of the new plant’s initial capacity.

The company explains that the new 100 GWh plant will "enable it to better cope with the battery demands of the European market, improve its global production network development, and help accelerate e-mobility and energy transition in Europe."

The factory will be powered by renewable electricity sources. The Chinese investment (the largest ever in the region) is expected to create up to 9,000 jobs.

According to the press release, there is also a potential to "establish facilities for battery materials in Europe", which means that we might see more CATL investments.

Dr. Robin Zeng, founder and Chairman of CATL said:

“There is no doubt that our plant in Debrecen will enable us to further sharpen our competitive edge, better respond to our European customers, and accelerate the transition to e-mobility in Europe. The greenfield project in Hungary will be a giant leap in CATL’s global expansion, and also an important step in our efforts to make an outstanding contribution to the green energy drive for humankind.”

Péter Szijjártó, Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, said:

“Both the global and the European economies have been faced with tremendous challenges recently. We in Hungary have a clear goal to be a local exception from the continental recession. The best tool to achieve this goal is to attract state-of-the-art investments in the most revolutionary branch of the automotive industry, namely electromobility. We are proud that CATL decided to execute the biggest ever greenfield investment in the history of Hungary. We have recently become one of the leading battery production sites of the world and with this huge investment we further strengthen our position.”

CATL battery plant in Hungary:...

Article 1: Cookies on FT Sites

We use cookies and other data for a number of reasons, such as keeping FT Sites reliable and secure, personalising content and ads, providing social media features and to analyse how our Sites are used....
Article 2: [1/2] The logo of carmaker Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles is pictured at the IAA Transportation fair, which opened its doors to the public on September 20, 2022, in Hanover, Germany, September 19, 2022. REUTERS/Fabian Bimmer Acquire Licensing Rights

WOLFSBURG, March 13 (Reuters) - Volkswagen's (VOWG_p.DE) battery needs are covered until 2028 by its three confirmed factories in Europe - the Salzgitter plant in Germany, Northvolt's plant in Sweden and a planned plant in Valencia, board member Thomas Schmall said on Monday.

The carmaker is still targeting 240 gigawatt hours of battery cell production capacity in Europe but could do this with fewer than the originally planned six plants, Schmall said.

"We stick to the 240 gigawatt hours. Whether we need five or six plants depends on the incentive strategy of the countries... this is not decided yet," he added.

The executive said he expects demand for between 60 and 100 gigawatt hours of capacity in North America, but did not give details on how much of this capacity will be provided by Volkswagen-owned plants.

It was a misunderstanding that announcements of new plants in North America meant that the carmaker would do less in Europe, Schmall said, adding it was simply waiting to see what Europe had to offer as a response to the U.S. Inflation Reduction Act (IRA).

The Valencia plant, confirmed last year, is due to begin production in 2026. Volkswagen does not need to start construction of a new plant in Europe until 2025, Schmall said, adding a decision on the next location could be made sooner if a similar tailwind to the IRA materialised in Europe.

The carmaker was standardising the structure of its factories and batteries, but the chemistry of the battery would differ for different models, Schmall said: Batteries for entry-level models will use iron phosphate, while medium-level models will have high manganese content and top models increased silicon content.

With its PowerCo battery unit, Volkswagen wanted to become a significant player but not the only player in the battery space, Schmall added, highlighting that 95% of the battery market is dominated by Asian players.

Reporting by Victoria Waldersee Editing by Miranda Murray, Kirsten Donovan

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles....
Article 3: Volkswagen has told the EU it is making faster progress in building a US battery factory than one in eastern Europe because of huge subsidies made available by the White House – adding to pressure on Brussels to offer bigger green incentives.

Europe’s largest carmaker has warned the EU it is being overtaken in the race to attract gigafactory investment, after Joe Biden announced a package of help to achieve net zero aims worth a total of $369bn (£312bn) under the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA).

Volkswagen is waiting for a response from Brussels before making a decision on whether to invest in the planned eastern European plant, the Financial Times reported.

The global supply of batteries for electric cars is dominated by Chinese, Korean and Japanese manufacturers but the US, Europe and other smaller players such as the UK are scrambling to catch up. Many analysts fear that without battery factories their existing car industries will eventually wither.

The EU has estimated that the market for batteries will be worth as much as €250bn (£223bn) a year by 2025, and several of its member states are offering large subsidies to attract investments by carmakers and battery companies.

However, the IRA subsidies put support from the EU or UK into the shade. Under the US act, battery cell manufacturers will be eligible for an “advanced manufacturing production credit” worth $35 per kilowatt hour of annual capacity. For factories producing at the scale of gigawatt hours in annual capacity, that support could run to billions of dollars a plant.

Volkswagen last week met senior EU officials as part of the European Battery Alliance, a body founded by the EU. The meeting was attended by the powerful EU commissioners, Maroš Šefčovič, Margrethe Vestager and Thierry Breton, who were told by the bosses of the chemicals company Umicore and the European battery producer Northvolt that the EU must speed up its permitting process and respond to the IRA.

Thomas Schmall, a member of Volkswagen’s management board and the head of its components division, said Europe needed to introduce an “IRA matching clause”, in a post on social media about the meeting, which he also attended.

Schmall wrote: “Today, the battery business is led by Asian companies. And while the United States are catching up thanks to the Inflation Reduction Act, Europe is more and more lagging behind. The conditions of the IRA are so attractive that Europe risks to lose the race for billions of investments that will be decided in the coming months and years.”

skip past newsletter promotion Sign up to Business Today Free daily newsletter Get set for the working day – we'll point you to all the business news and analysis you need every morning Privacy Notice: Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Newsletters may contain info about charities, online ads, and content funded by outside parties. For more information see our Privacy Policy . We use Google reCaptcha to protect our website and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply. after newsletter promotion

Volkswagen has planned to build six European battery factories with 40GWh of capacity each. The first two, in Salzgitter, Germany, and Valencia, Spain, are due to start production in 2025 and 2026 respectively.

Volkswagen said: “We are still evaluating suitable locations for our next cell factories in eastern Europe and North America. No decisions have been made yet. We stick to our plan to build cell factories for about 240 GWh in Europe by 2030 but for this, we need the right framework conditions. That is why we wait and see what the so-called EU green deal will bring.”

As well as subsidies, other factors under consideration will include access to green energy at low prices and the availability of skilled workers....
Article 4: Volkswagen Group broke ground Thursday at the first of six battery factories it expects to build in Europe, the official kickoff of a new battery business that will invest $20 billion through 2030 to become a global EV leader.

Volkswagen’s new company, called PowerCo, will be responsible for the automaker’s global battery business, managing the value chain from raw materials to recycling. The automaker expects that the factory in Salzgitter, Germany and the five others planned for Europe will cut its battery costs by half, a key competitive advantage as the global market for EVs intensifies.

The factories and new company are part of Volkswagen’s efforts to ramp up EV production worldwide. Earlier this week. the world’s second-largest automaker announced plans to grow its business in China with “some major investments” and a hiring spree at the Chinese office for CARIAD, Volkswagen’s in-house automotive software arm.

Volkswagen said battery cell production will begin in 2025 at the Salzgitter factory, which will serve as the standardized model for future factories, making it easier to replicate and scale. PowerCo will locate its second cell factory in Valencia, Spain and is considering expanding the model to North America. Locations for the four other European factories have not been announced.

PowerCo will manage Volkswagen Group’s international factory operations, develop cell technology, vertically integrate the value chain and supply the factories with machinery and equipment. The Salzgitter plant is expected to supply about 500,000 EVs. Together, the new factories planned for Europe could supply roughly 3 million EVs.

Volkswagen said PowerCo and partners will invest more than 20 billion EUR ($20.34 billion) by 2030 and employ up to 20,000 people in Europe. Additional projects include developing storage systems for the energy grid.

VW CEO Herbert Diess called the launch of the company a “strategic milestone.”

“Establishing our own cell factory is a mega-project in technical and economic terms,” Diess said in a statement. “It shows that we are bringing the leading-edge technology of the future to Germany.”...

Article 1: A man walks past a sign of SVOLT Energy Technology Co at Great Wall’s HAVAL technology center in Baoding, Hebei province, China July 9 2019. REUTERS/Yilei Sun Acquire Licensing Rights

April 13 (Reuters) - Chinese battery maker SVOLT Energy Technology Co is set to expand its footprint in Europe to as many as five factories, Bloomberg News reported on Thursday.

SVOLT is looking at locations in eastern, northern and western Europe, with one larger site in the 20-gigawatt range, according to the report.

The company is targeting production capacity of at least 50 gigawatt-hours in Europe by the end of the decade, SVOLT Europe head Kai-Uwe Wollenhaupt said in an interview with Bloomberg.

The company in September last year unveiled plans to build an additional cell assembly in Germany to supply electric vehicles, picking the state of Brandenburg, which is also home to Tesla Inc's (TSLA.O) gigafactory, as a location.

SVOLT also plans to build a plant in Saarland.

Besides, SVOLT is in talks with several European car makers about battery cell supply agreements, the Bloomberg report said.

Asian companies dominate battery-making in Europe. Data shows some 44% of planned battery capacity in Europe by 2030 is expected from Asian companies, with Chinese battery giant CATL on top of the list.

SVOLT did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment.

Reporting by Kanjyik Ghosh in Bengaluru; Editing by Shilpi Majumdar

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles....
Article 2: The battery manufacturer SVOLT, which emerged from the Chinese carmaker Great Wall, is reportedly planning to build five battery cell factories in Europe. Two are confirmed for Germany so far.

The information from SVOLT was picked up by Bloomberg with reference to statements by Kai-Uwe Wollenhaupt, head of SVOLT Europe. According to the report, talks are said to be underway to supply carmakers in the region. According to the report, SVOLT hopes to conclude three deals by the middle of the year. In total, the company is aiming for a production capacity of at least 50 gigawatt-hours in Europe by the end of the decade, it says. That would be enough to power up to one million electric cars, it said.

“The battery industry in Europe is really taking off,” Wollenhaupt said. “We could develop our sites even faster if we had more resources like land and skilled workers available.”

SVOLT has already announced two sites in Germany, one of which will supply Stellantis from 2025. The conversion of an existing plant into a 12-gigawatt facility in Lauchhammer, Brandenburg, is currently underway. The start of construction of an announced 2-billion-euro factory in Saarland was recently postponed to at least 2027 due to local protests. At least SVOLT signed the lease for its future factory for the assembly of modules and packs at the Heusweiler site in Saarland in December. However, this does not fall under the potential five production sites in Europe where cells are to come off the production line.

Bloomberg writes that the company remains committed to the plans in Saarland and that SVOLT’s strategy is to target smaller production facilities that are less demanding on local resources. “We are not fans of huge factories,” Wollenhaupt is quoted as saying. Since there is often a lack of qualified labour in areas that offer sufficient industrial space. In addition, he says, water consumption is considerable, which can create a public headwind.

The company is said to be currently looking at sites in Eastern, Northern and Western Europe – including a larger site in the 20-gigawatt range.

Separately, SVOLT unveiled a battery pack innovation just before the end of the year that is designed to provide increased safety and enable greater range. The new ‘Dragon Armor Battery’ has been available for pre-order worldwide since December and is expected to be used in the first production models in 2023.

As with BYD’s Blade battery and CATL’s Qilin battery, SVOLT’s Dragon Armor Battery is not a new cell chemistry with higher energy density, but a newly designed battery pack. Depending on the chemistry of the cells used in the Dragon Armor Battery, ranges of over 800 kilometres (LFP) to over 1,000 kilometres (NCM) should be possible.

bloomberg.com...
Article 3: SVOLT has confirmed building another cell factory for the European battery industry in Germany. The new site at Lauchhammer, Brandenburg, is a former wind turbine plant owned by Vestas. The company aims to repurpose it fast, by early 2025.

This is to make up for the delays SVOLT is now facing in Saarland. The Chinese company has been planning to produce battery cells in central Europe for some time and had confirmed factories in the German state of Saarland in November 2020. SVOLT aims to make cells near the town of Überherrn, close to a battery assembly in Heusweiler, also Saarland. However, the new plans in Brandenburg come on the back of said delays at the Saarland sites. We will come to these later.

Yet there are other reasons for Lauchhammer. Brandenburg, the state that surrounds Berlin, lies along the region’s supply chain and battery life cycle. There is, for example, the chemical company BASF which entered a partnership with SVOLT for battery materials and recycling at the end of 2021. BASF is currently building a cathode material factory, including a recycling pilot plant, in Schwarzheide, less than 7 kilometres from Lauchhammer.

SVOLT is planning to start production in Brandenburg in early 2025, Maxim Hantsch-Kramskoj, VP of Sales & Marketing of SVOLT Europe, told journalists. The company targets an initial capacity of 16 GWh.

That sounds like construction will quick (and rushed). The former Vestas site is a so-called brownfield project. SVOLT says it took over the plant, including buildings and infrastructure, from the previous owner at the end of August and will now “repurpose the majority of the existing halls”. However, rebuilding measures and extension works will also be necessary and realised in the near future, so SVOLT. The company adds that it was developing a master plan including a detailed schedule for all modernisation and building measures.

SVOLT sites in Saarland facing delays

At the same time, the construction of the Saarland sites will take much longer than planned. According to the Saarbrücker Zeitung paper, Kramskoy does not expect SVOLT to produce battery cells in Überherrn before 2027 – that is four years later than initially announced.

Even though Heusweiler builds on an existing building like Brandenburg, there would also be delays at this second Saarland site for the assembly of modules and packs, the manager said. Production was supposed to start in the middle of this year with parts from other SVOLT plants. Now the company says it will only begin assembly by February 2024.

Hantsch-Kramskoj did not detail the reasons for the delay but pointed to the project being “very complex”. Following experts, they would now reach master planning. The Saarland sites would get the time they require, he said.

SVOLT has to deliver, first from Brandenburg

Still, SVOLT has to deliver another driver for selecting the Lauchhammer site reasonably quickly. So far, PSA is confirmed as a customer and signed an option for 7 GWh as reported.

Kai-Uwe Wollenhaupt, President of SVOLT Europe & VP of SVOLT Energy Technology, said he was happy that they were able to conclude the conversations with Vestas timely and take over the site.

Mirko Buhr, Mayor of the City of Lauchhammer, also went on to “explicitly thank all those involved for their dedicated efforts to bring a successor company to the former Vestas site as swiftly as possible.”

The site offers 255,000 square metres of space, and SVOLT has the right of first refusal on an adjacent free area of another 71,000 sqm.

Hantsch-Kramskoj referred to the project as a “gigafactory” when speaking to the local press. Even if put in Tesla-speak, the new factory won’t compare to the Tesla plant in Grünheide, about 150 kilometres away.

As for synergies between the plants in Brandenburg and Saarland, SVOLT expects to utilise battery cells produced in Lauchhammer at the future assembly site in Heusweiler. At least until the Saarland cell factory comes online. SVOLT aims to produce between 22 and 32 Gwh, double the 16 GWh in Brandenburg. That is batteries for about 300,000 to 500,000 e-vehicles per year.

SVOLT has not disclosed which cells may be made in Brandenburg (and Saarland). However, the company has pushed cobalt-free battery cells since July 2019. These have undergone testing for at least two years now.

Plus, the battery maker that came out of Great Wall Motors reportedly produced a prototype batch of 20 Ah cells with a solid electrolyte based on sulphide only a few weeks ago in China. The prototype solid-state cells have an energy density of 350-400 Wh/kg. This is in line with SVOLT’s earlier tests, and the result promises a range of over 1,000 kilometres for electric cars in future.

svolt-eu.com, saarbruecker-zeitung.de (delay Saarland, in German)...
Article 4: Why did this happen?

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy....

Article 1: A new Tesla Megapack project has become Europe’s biggest battery system capable of backing up power to around 300,000 UK homes for two hours.

Megapack has quickly emerged as the leading battery system for large utility-scale energy storage systems.

It helped Tesla’s energy division accelerate storage deployment, and the company has now built an impressive backlog of orders.

But Tesla is now working faster than ever through its backlog with 42 Megapacks per week produced at Gigafactory Nevada, in addition to the new Megafactory in California recently coming online and trying to ramp up to an ambitious capacity of 40 GWh of Megapacks per year.

The new output is resulting in more projects coming online like this 196 MWh battery system, the Pillswood Project, near Hull in the UK.

Harmony Energy Limited, the project developer, announced that they completed the installation of the Tesla Megapacks and brought the project online – becoming what they believe to be the largest battery system in Europe:

The project will provide critical balancing services to the GB electricity grid network whilst also enabling the replacement of fossil fuels with renewable energy.

Tesla has been deeply involved in the project and managed the installation.

Harmony also confirmed that the project will be operated with Tesla’s Autobidder software:

The project will be operated through Autobidder, Tesla’s algorithmic trading platform, which has demonstrated a strong track record over the past two years in managing the Holes Bay and Contego projects – two existing battery storage projects also developed by Harmony Energy Limited in conjunction with FRV.

In 2020, Electrek spotted a previously unknown new product from Tesla: Autobidder.

It’s a real-time trading and control platform for energy assets like Tesla’s Powerpacks, Powerwalls, and Megapacks, optimized through machine learning to better use and more directly monetize the assets.

As of last year, Tesla Autobidder had over 1.2 GWh of energy storage under management, and it has been adding capacity fast.

Tesla Energy, the company’s energy division deploying stationary energy storage and solar power, is having record quarters one after the other.

Last quarter, Tesla deployed a record high of 2.1 GWh in battery capacity – mostly driven by Megapack growth. The record is expected to be broken again shortly thanks to the new capacity at the Megafactory....
Article 2: Sign up for daily news updates from CleanTechnica on email. Or follow us on Google News

Originally posted on EVANNEX.

by Charles Morris

You can’t build EVs without batteries, as Elon Musk acknowledged years ago when he announced plans to build the first of Tesla’s Gigafactories (and coined a new word). Musk and others have estimated that the world will need several dozen battery gigafactories once EVs begin to be produced in serious volume.

It’s not just a question of volume—geography and politics also come into play. At the moment, most of the world’s EV battery production is in Asia—an untenable situation for governments in North America and Europe that want to promote EV adoption and create green jobs. And of course, it makes environmental sense to produce batteries as near as possible to where the vehicles will be produced and sold.

So, the world will be getting a lot more gigafactories (and the word will be losing its capitalization). The scene is really heating up in Europe, where government and industry have mounted a major push to produce batteries domestically. According to a new report from the non-profit Transport & Environment (via The Next Web), as of May 2021, there were 38 battery gigafactories being built or planned in Europe and the UK.

EV sales are poised for grand global growth, and as T&E reports, Europe’s strong domestic EV market, a pre-existing industrial base and high environmental standards put the Continent in the catbird seat to capture a healthy slice of the market.

A look at some of the battery gigafactories in the works all across Germany (YouTube: Germany Trade & Invest)

“Battery investments are booming thanks largely to the rapidly growing electric vehicle sales seen across Europe in 2020/21, closely mirroring regulatory requirements, notably the EU car CO2 standards,” says T&E. In 2020 T&E predicted Volkswagen would sell 9.6% EVs in order to hit its CO2 goals. The final sales share was 9.7%.

Of the 38 projects in the pipeline, 17 have secured funding so far, representing approximately $30 billion of total investment. Ten other projects, representing another $16.8 billion, have secured partial financing, and 11 more gigafactories have recently been announced, but have not confirmed financing.

Several national-flagged projects are underway—companies planning plants under public/private partnerships include Verkor in France, Britishvolt in the UK, Italvolt in Italy, Basquevolt-Nabatt in Spain, and Freyr in Norway. Not only European companies have benefitted from the largesse — Tesla’s Berlin Gigafactory received some $1.4 billion in German federal and state support.

If all 38 gigafactories make it to production, they could be delivering as much as 462 GWh worth of battery cells by 2025, and 1,144 GWh by 2030, enough to power over 90% of expected new vehicle sales in that year. According to Transport & Environment’s analysis, this would give Europe a 20% market share of global cell production by 2025, making it second only to China.

Have a tip for CleanTechnica? Want to advertise? Want to suggest a guest for our CleanTech Talk podcast? CleanTechnica Holiday Wish Book Have a tip for CleanTechnica? Want to advertise? Want to suggest a guest for our CleanTech Talk podcast? Contact us here Click to download. Our Latest EVObsession Video I don't like paywalls. You don't like paywalls. Who likes paywalls? Here at CleanTechnica, we implemented a limited paywall for a while, but it always felt wrong — and it was always tough to decide what we should put behind there. In theory, your most exclusive and best content goes behind a paywall. But then fewer people read it!! So, we've decided to completely nix paywalls here at CleanTechnica. But... Like other media companies, we need reader support! If you support us, please chip in a bit monthly to help our team write, edit, and publish 15 cleantech stories a day! Thank you! Advertisement CleanTechnica uses affiliate links. See our policy here...
Article 3: By

Tesla won public funding from one of the EU Commission’s Important Project of Common European Interest (IPCEI) programs. The funding will likely support Tesla’s plans for a massive battery cell factory near Giga Berlin in Grünheide.

In January, the Commission approved €2.9 billion worth of funds dedicated to a project called “European Battery Innovation,” which focuses on the research and innovation of the local battery value chain. The EU’s battery value chain concentrates on four categories, all of which Tesla falls under. The exact sum Tesla will receive in public funding has not been divulged by the Commission, though local government sources have noted that the funding will be in the “single-digit billions.”

“The state aid framework for [IPCEIs] is based in principle on expenditure for research activities,” explained a spokesperson from the Ministry of Economic Affairs to Business Insider. “Investments in scaling are only recognized under state aid law insofar as the scaling is a result of research and development activities and itself includes an important research and development component. A general formula or similar for calculating the Funding does not therefore exist.”

With the European Battery Innovation project, the Commission seems hopeful that the EU will hold a strong position in the growing global battery industry, alongside China and the United States. Supporting Tesla might be a good step toward the EU Commission’s goals given the company’s extensive background, research, and developments in battery technology.

Tesla plans to build an advanced battery production plant to produce its 4680 battery cells near Gigafactory Berlin, which would then be used in vehicles like the Made-in-Germany Model Y. The EV automaker already received pre-approval for the battery cell factory for its Germany-based plant.

Do you have tips to share with the Teslarati Team about Tesla’s 4680 cells or battery production line? We’d love to hear from you, email us at tips@teslarati.com or reach out to me at maria@teslarati.com.

State Aid Commission Approves 2.9 Billion Public Support by Twelve Member States for a Second Pan-European… by Maria Merano on Scribd

Tesla granted billions in EU public funding to develop battery cell technology in Germany...
Article 4: "Saying that their whole supply chain has components that are green and sustainably manufactured is a very good message to go out to consumers with," says Ms Fitzpatrick, "as opposed to using components that are flown in and have a high carbon footprint because they are transported from all over the world and are produced with very coal-intensive methods"....

Article 1: General view outside the Northvolt facility in Vasteras, Sweden, September 29, 2021. Picture taken September 29, 2021. REUTERS/Helena Soderpalm. Acquire Licensing Rights

Summary

Companies Northvolt could invest 3-5 bln euros in plant - sources

Over 600 mln subsidies for Northvolt pending approval - source

Europe, U.S. jostling for green industrial investments

Northvolt may build two plants in parallel - spokesperson

STOCKHOLM/BERLIN, May 12 (Reuters) - Two electric vehicle battery makers plan to spend around 10 billion euros ($11 billion) on factories in Europe, they said on Friday, after Europe loosened state aid rules for green industry projects in a bid to win the subsidy race with the U.S.

Both plants will start production in 2026, employ thousands of people and supply batteries to European car makers.

After months of worry that it would opt for an investment in North America over Europe, Sweden's Northvolt said it is set to pick Heide in northern Germany for its factory as long as subsidies are approved, estimated by one source close to the matter to be over 600 million euros.

Taiwan's ProLogium, meanwhile, announced a new plant in the French city of Dunkirk after France offered deal sweeteners and competitive power prices, executives from the company said.

With Taiwan a focal point in tensions between Washington and Beijing, the company also wanted to secure a base overseas.

Europe, home to carmakers such as Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE) and BMW (BMWG.DE), has been trying to lower dependency on Asian countries for batteries that will power green electric cars, though the region still relies heavily on Asia for sourcing and processing raw materials like lithium, cobalt and manganese.

High energy prices and a lack of subsidies comparable to the $430-billion U.S. Inflation Reduction Act has prompted companies from Volkswagen to utility Enel and cement maker Holcim to call on the European Union to do more to encourage investment.

Volkswagen was expected to announce a battery plant location in Europe late last year but said in March it is awaiting more clarity from Europe on subsidies before making a decision.

For Northvolt, Europe's 'Temporary Crisis and Transition Framework' (TCTF) which simplifies conditions for countries to grant aid to green projects and allowed Germany more freedom in offering support for the battery plant, helped firm up its plans to build in the region, a spokesperson said.

How energy prices could be brought down was unclear, the spokesperson added, though supply is not a concern given high amounts of offshore wind near the plant's planned location.

Northvolt, alongside Volkswagen, is the furthest ahead among just a handful of European players paving the way for a home-grown battery industry, with a large chunk of planned capacity in Europe to be owned by Asian players.

The plant by Taiwan's ProLogium would be its first overseas car battery factory. French President Emmanuel Macron lobbied for the factory to beat other contestants like Germany and the Netherlands.

Both Germany and France sweetened the subsidy pot after the U.S. last year unveiled its major tax subsidies to boost domestic manufacturing.

The subsidies for Northvolt would be the first provided by Germany under Europe's TCTF programme, adopted in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine and expanded this year to support green transition projects.

The support still needs the approval of the European Commission.

A second plant could also be constructed in parallel elsewhere, a Northvolt spokesperson said, including in North America.

Foreign and domestic companies have invested in Germany to feed its growing EV industry. CATL (300750.SZ), which has been expanding rapidly outside China, is ramping up production of its plant near Erfurt in Germany and BASF (BASFn.DE) is building a battery materials site in Schwarzheide, eastern Germany.

U.S. Microvast (MVST.O), meanwhile, built a factory in Ludwigsfelde, south of Berlin.

(This story has been corrected to say production, not construction in paragraph 2)

Reporting by Victoria Waldersee, Supantha Mukherjee, Andreas Rinke Editing by Friederike Heine, Mark Potter and Sharon Singleton

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles....
Article 2: With an investment of more than 20 million euros, the company wants to meet the continuing strong demand. Further investments are planned.

VARTA AG is investing in the growth market of renewable energies: In the summer, its new factory for energy storage systems will go into operation. In future, up to 100,000 energy storage systems per year will be produced on a total area of more than 5000 square metres at the Neunheim site in Ellwangen, Baden-Württemberg. With an average capacity of ten kilowatt hours per energy storage system, the production output will then correspond to more than one gigawatt hour per year.

Production is highly automated and uses the latest Industry 4.0 technologies, including robots and laser welding processes. The Ellwangen-based technology company is investing more than 20 million euros for this. Further investments are planned. A total of around 120 jobs will be created at the new plant.

Dominik Gluba, General Manager of VARTA Energy Storage: "Growth in the home storage market continues unabated. In the first quarter of 2023, more than 110,000 new storage units were installed in Germany. For the first half of the year, we expect almost 240,000 new installations in Germany. With the production capacities of the new Gigafactory, we can adapt well to the growing market."

The expansion of production will take place in two stages: Starting in the fourth quarter of 2023, the production output should be around 500 megawatt hours per year, which corresponds to about 50,000 storage systems. The output is then to be increased to one gigawatt hour by the beginning of 2025 at the latest.

The investment in the future market of renewable energies is part of VARTA AG's overall strategic concept. The company had announced that it would target growth markets even more specifically with innovative products as part of its restructuring.

The production facility in the immediate vicinity of the VARTA headquarters in Ellwangen underlines the loyalty of the tradition-rich company to production in Germany. With direct access to the A7 motorway, the new factory is well connected and accessible to the surrounding metropolises of Ulm, Würzburg and Stuttgart. A further expansion of the site is already under consideration: Additional production lines are to be added in the near future, and expansion areas have already been planned on site....
Article 3: Projects are being launched by newcomers like FREYR and Northvolt, automotive OEMs like Tesla and VW, and established cell producers from East Asia like BYD, LG Chem and CATL. Most planned capacity is set to go to the EV market rather than stationary energy storage, but a bottleneck in the supply of the former has knock-on effects on the latter.

CATL this week announced a second battery gigafactory project in Hungary, after its first in Germany which it told Energy-Storage.news was ‘going smoothly as planned’ and is set to start battery cell production by the end of 2022 as scheduled.

However, many projects will not open on time according to analysts looking at the market.

A snapshot of Europe’s gigafactory projects, taken from Dr Heiner Heimes’ ‘Battery Atlas’ of the European sector. Image: Battery-News.De.

Long lead times

Dr Heiner Heimes, an academic specialising in battery production at RWTH Aachen University in Germany, and co-author of Battery-News.De‘s reports on the topic, told Energy-Storage.news that long lead times for equipment are proving a major challenge.

“Nearly all of the projects have some delay, though not all talk about it. But if you look at the current delivery times it’s clear we’ll see delays because it’s very hard right now to get the different components for the production equipment,” he said.

“But, these delays won’t be critical. A delay of three or six months won’t lead to investors saying ‘we have to stop everything’. And the good thing is, we haven’t seen one project that’s been cancelled entirely.”

Another analyst, research firm Delta-EE’s head of flexibility and storage Jon Ferris, did suggest that some gigafactories might not open at all. He cited a shortage of lithium carbonate as the main bottleneck affecting plans, and that some of the earliest projects have switched to producing lithium iron phosphate (LFP) batteries due to shortages in nickel, manganese and cobalt (NMC).

Delta-EE’s data shows that roughly a quarter of the c.40 major gigafactory projects, outlined in Battery-News.De‘s map, have been delayed. But many have also increased their nameplate capacity plans so overall the picture is still one of growth rather than volumes being pushed back.

First pulled gigafactory project?

One project which has has been widely reported as substantially delayed or even pulled entirely is that of Chinese company Farasis Energy, partner to automotive group Daimler, in Bitterfeld-Wolfen, Germany. An initial production start date of 2022 was reportedly pushed to 2024 and there are now doubts it may happen at all.

Outlet Mitteldeutsche Zeitung reported in May that the urban development contract between Farasis and the local council for the project had been terminated, citing official statements by both parties. But, as Dr Heimes alluded to, plans for a gigafactory project in Europe have not been officially cancelled by the company.

FREYR Battery

One of those to have both pushed back its initial planned start date for commercial production but doubled annual production capacity targets is Norway-based gigafactory company FREYR Battery. Company presentations as recent as February 2022 expected the start-up of production lines in its first gigafactory in late 2023 while the company is now targeting the start of production in the first half of 2024.

However, CEO Tom Jensen told Energy-Storage.news in a recent interview that this change in timeline was due to the company’s capital raise through going public last year happening 4-5 months later than planned, along with the process to combine and optimise its first two gigafactories into one.

“Given Covid, given everything, we like to say that we’re reasonably in line with what we’ve said previously. Of course, there is a month here and there because of things like the China shutdown and so on, but we’ve been able to mitigate the worst of that. In that way we can get up to the nameplate capacity a steady run rate of volume more or less in line with what we’ve been saying before,” he said.

“But it’s been a very difficult environment in which to do that. So when we’re saying that we’re reasonably on track, of course, it’s not one-to-one but it’s roughly there.”

Discussing how the company has been able to double capacity targets, he explained: “We see that we can upscale production with the 24M platform, that we have a replicable industrialisation blueprint which can be exported to other jurisdictions, and of course we see that both the incentives and demand in the market are booming.”

Kontrolmatik

In the same press release announcing an expansion of its planned US facility, Turkish company Kontrolmatik Technologies said its LFP gigafactory on home soil ‘…will begin production by the second quarter of 2023’.

When asked if this meant a delay, considering previous statements by the subsidiary responsible for the projects that its first phase of capacity would ‘head to production by end of 2022‘ and ‘be fully operational by 2022 Q4‘, Kontrolmatik’s USA CEO Bahadir Yetki told Energy-Storage.news:

“There are no delays in our factory construction in Turkey indeed as planned. Factory will be completed at the end of this year, but commercial production will start as of second quarter of 2023 following a quarter of commissioning, training, testing and certification.

“Factory will be finished by the end of 2022 to start its production but commercial production will take another 3 months of pilot production, testing and certification. You can still accept end of 2022 as the completion of the construction and start of the production. We will only start “selling” by the 2Q 2023. If we can make all testing and certification ready before that we can always start commercial operations earlier.”

Changing battery chemistry to get around lithium shortages

One way to get around delays due to difficulties in securing the raw materials needed for production is to switch battery chemistry. Ferris and Dr Heimes both pointed to the switch to LFP amongst some projects although Dr Heimes said the majority are still planning for NMC ones, which have a higher energy density reflecting the market’s focus on EVs.

But shortages in lithium carbonate may open up an opportunity for non-lithium batteries which can at least partially slot in to lithium battery production lines. The founder of potassium-ion battery startup Alex Girau recently pitched its technology as the one most well-placed to do this.

Handful of gigafactory projects online this year

Lithium-ion gigafactories reported to start production this year in Europe include CATL’s in Germany, a second facility in Hungary from SK Innovation, and two in Germany and France from from Automotive Cells Company, a new company backed by Saft, Stellantis and Mercedes.

But with announcements generally only revealing the annual production capacity for latter stages of facilities’ ramp-up, it is unclear how much production capacity these will cumulatively add initially....
Article 4: The battery manufacturer Varta aims to get involved in the market for electric car battery cells in the future. Up to now, the German company has primarily produced batteries for household electronics but has been involved in cell research for some time.

According to the German business publication Wirtschaftswoche, the new large-format battery cell 21700 is at the centre of Varta’s plans. The paper refers to “circles close to the company”, Varta itself did not want to comment on the topic. The company is currently building a pilot line for the 21700 cells at its headquarters in Ellwangen. According to the report, these are initially to be used primarily in high-performance electric cars – “for example as a short-term accelerator or as part of drive concepts in which the battery is permanently recharged by a motor while driving”, it says. Varta is currently in talks with several car manufacturers about this.

In the course of research activities, Varta is already known to many players in the electromobility industry – be it for the development of digitalised large-scale production of large-format battery cells alongside Fraunhofer IPA and ZSW or, more recently, for the creation of novel battery separators made of glass together with the University of Bayreuth and Tesla.

However, Varta moved into the limelight first and foremost with its participation in the first battery IPCEI (“Important Projects of Common European Interest”) of the European Union and with subsidies amounting to 300 million euros, which were granted to the company by the federal government and also by the states of Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg in 2022. According to the report, two-thirds of this sum will flow into the research and development of the new 21700 cells. The subsidies, which the European Commission approved under state aid law, can be drawn down by Varta until the end of 2024.

When the funding notifications were handed over in June last year, it was specifically stated that Varta would work on two projects: In addition to developing the latest generation of small-format lithium-ion cells with higher energy densities, the company plans to focus on transferring its technology to larger cell formats, for example for electric cars. However, the larger cells should also be able to be used in stationary battery storage or robots, for example.

In the course of setting up a pilot line for the new 21700 cells in Ellwangen, Varta is planning a recruitment drive: the group announced in mid-2020 that it intends to create around 1,000 new jobs in the German towns of Ellwangen and Nördlingen by the end of 2021. For Varta, this is enormous growth: the company currently has around 4,000 employees.

wiwo.de (in German)...

