Article 1: Envision AESC has begun the building works for its battery factory near the Nissan plant in Sunderland, UK. It will be the second UK facility for the EV battery specialist from Japan. Envision AESC also announced new details regarding capacities after reports had varied.

Once the new plant comes on stream in 2025, it will have an annual capacity of 12 GWh, writes Envision in today’s announcement. This is more than the 9 GWh the company had set when publishing the plans for Sunderland in July 2021. A few months later, in October, Envision CEO Zhang Lei named an initial capacity of 11 GWh, but already for 2024. But going back to the latest news, expansion, so far, has been forecasted as 25 GWh by 2030 and ultimately up to 35 GWh.

The type of cell AESC will be making for Nissan here has remained unchanged, with Envision saying it would produce its latest generation batteries with 30% more energy density. They further promise to deliver enough batteries to power 100,000 electric vehicles annually. They did not provide more details, and it remains unclear whether the facility will manufacture cells or also house the assembly of entire battery modules.

However, Nissan’s presence in Sunderland and cooperation with AESC have been longstanding. Nissan Europe Vice President of Engineering Andy Marsh explained how the first Sunderland battery plant helped launch the 100% electric Nissan LEAF and expects the second factory to become “a fundamental part of our EV36Zero project, which brings together electric vehicle production, battery manufacturing and renewables as we drive towards carbon neutrality”.

The EV36Zero initiative is worth £1 billion to Nissan and Envision AESC with the cooperation of the Sunderland Council. As battery partner Envision pledged to invest £450 million (about €525 mn) in the UK’s “first Gigafactory”. Nissan, in turn, promised up to £423 mn to produce another electric model in Sunderland in form of an all-electric crossover model based on the CMF EV platform from the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance. Nissan plans to create a production capacity of 100,000 vehicles per year in Sunderland.

According to the Japanese partners, the announced projects will create 6,200 jobs at Nissan and its UK suppliers, including more than 900 new Nissan jobs and 750 new Envision AESC jobs at its battery plant. Envision AESC also says it will increase the above initial investment of £450 mn in the manufacturing facility to £1.8 billion “in a later phase”, the equivalent of around €2.1 bn, and today spoke of employing up to 4,500 staff.

The company is already known to operate a 1.9 GWh plant on site, built in 2012 under Nissan. At the time, AESC was still working as a battery subsidiary of the Japanese carmaker before Nissan sold AESC to Envision Group in 2018. Within the last nine years, “enough cells, modules and packs for over 180,000 electric vehicles in 44 countries” have been produced at the plant, most notably for installation in the Nissan Leaf and e-NV200.

Globally, the second facility is part of Envision’s plan to scale up EV manufacturing capabilities in strategic regions. The plant follows last year’s announcements to build gigafactories in Douai, France, the US state of Kentucky, Ibaraki Japan, and Extremadura in Spain. This brings Envision AESC’s total capacity to more than 150GWh worldwide and advances its commitment to reach 300GWh by 2026.

northeastautomotivealliance.com...
Article 2: This is the area where our team puts together the based components needed to produce the first stage in our battery production – the cell.

Large rolls of anode and cathode electrodes are slit into sheets before fast-moving robots are used to layer them in alternating positive and negative patterns to make the cell.

The cells then move through conveyors to the tab welding process, where the positive and negative tabs are added. They are then laminated into pouches, effectively making a dry cell, before entering the injection process, where the electrolyte is added to help form the current between the electrodes. The cell is then heat sealed and stacked into magazines 4-cells high in preparation for the next stage.

This is all done in a specialist clean room environment, where our teams must wear full PPE to protect our products. Our product is in demand, so this is a high-pressure environment where fast pace is combined with complicated processes, so the ability to work quickly and carefully is key....
Article 3: Service Unavailable

The server is temporarily unable to service your request due to maintenance downtime or capacity problems. Please try again later.

Additionally, a 503 Service Unavailable error was encountered while trying to use an ErrorDocument to handle the request....
Article 4: Specifically, the European Investment Bank (EIB) is providing €450 million in aid to the Japan-based company for its factory in France: €337.2 million will be paid as a direct loan and a further €112.8 million in the form of indirect loans to participating commercial banks. According to an accompanying press release, this financing will be used to realise the first phase of the plant. Initially, AESC plans to produce battery cells with an annual capacity of 9 GWh for Renault from 2025. Thereafter, the factory is planned to expand gradually, up to “24-30 GWh in 2030”.

According to Matsumoto Shoichi, CEO of the AESC Group, the construction of this Gigafactory contributes to the European will to decarbonise the territory, thanks to crucial funding from the European Investment Bank. “This includes the creation of new jobs with high added value and access to our cutting-edge technology. We are also proud to be able to promote clean mobility by making batteries and electric vehicles affordable.”

Originally, ASEC wanted to realise a factory with a capacity of 43 GWh in Douai by 2030, but cut these plans at the end of 2021. Since then, there has been talk of 30 GWh or more by 2029. As the EIB communication now shows, it is now slightly less again with 24 to 30 GWh in 2030. The initial downsizing followed the decision to build the plant on a car park next to Renault’s Douai assembly plant instead of in a wooded area, according to project manager Ayumi Kurose at the time.

The EIB now says the major project will require an investment of 1.3 billion euros. The 450 million euros in loans from the EIB will therefore cover a good third. The bank also specifies that the batteries produced in Douai will be used primarily for the future Renault R5 and 4Ever electric models. However, the press release also states: “The future phases of this gigafactory will be able to supply Renault as well as other automotive and industrial manufacturers with electric batteries in the future.” So it remains a multi-customer strategy on the part of AESC.

The battery factory in Douai is part of the Renault ElectriCity eMobility industrial cluster announced in 2021. The umbrella company will bundle the electric car activities of Renault’s Douai, Maubeuge and Ruitz plants in northern France and build 400,000 vehicles per year from 2025. From the Douai battery plant, Renault plans to source NMC cells with a more “affordable” cell chemistry for the volume vehicles. Performance cells will continue to be supplied by long-time battery partner LG Energy Solution. Renault has also entered into a partnership with French startup Verkor, from which the carmaker plans to source up to ten GWh of high-performance cells (probably mainly for the electric Alpine models)....
