Article 1: FREYR Battery Awarded €100 Million EU Innovation Fund Grant

FREYR Battery (NYSE: FREY) (“FREYR”), a developer of clean, next-generation battery cell production capacity, has announced that the company has been awarded a €100 million grant from the European Union (“EU”) to support development of FREYR’s Giga Arctic project in Norway. The grant will be funded through the EU’s Innovation Fund (“EUIF”) as part of the EU’s efforts to promote localized production of battery solutions.

“We are delighted with the news we have received from the EU’s Innovation Fund to support FREYR’s Giga Arctic project,” remarked Tom Einar Jensen, FREYR’s Co-Founder and CEO. “This grant is a recognition that batteries represent the key catalyst of the energy transition supporting regional energy security through faster deployment of renewable energy. Moreover, this significant financial commitment provides timely support to continued development of the Giga Arctic project, which is intended to bring clean battery products to our customers and partners across Europe. We look forward to working with the EUIF as well as the Norwegian Government to unlock further momentum for next generation battery production capacity at GWh scale in Norway.”

Giga Arctic, which has been under development since FREYR’s Board of Directors sanctioned the start of construction in June 2022, is designed to be a 29 GWh nameplate capacity facility based on the 24M Technologies SemiSolidTM manufacturing platform and powered with 100% renewable hydroelectricity.

According to a report recently published by Minviro, a life cycle assessment company and independent third-party commissioned by FREYR, the annual production at the planned Giga Arctic facility in Norway could enable FREYR’s customers to mitigate 80 million tons of CO2 emissions over the batteries’ lifetime when used for renewable Energy Storage Systems (ESS). The projected emissions mitigation corresponds to almost twice the total amount of CO2 emitted in Norway annually.

The EU’s Innovation Fund is one of the world’s largest funding opportunities for projects designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The fund targets highly innovative technologies and large-scale, flagship initiatives that can bring more value to Europe in terms of transitioning to a low-carbon continent.

About FREYR Battery

FREYR Battery aims to provide industrial scale clean battery solutions to reduce global emissions. Listed on the New York Stock Exchange, FREYR’s mission is to produce green battery cells to accelerate the decarbonization of energy and transportation systems globally. FREYR has commenced building the first of its planned factories in Mo i Rana, Norway and announced potential development of industrial scale battery cell production in the United States and Vaasa, Finland. FREYR intends to install 50 GWh of battery cell capacity by 2025 and 100 GWh annual capacity by 2028 and 200 GWh of annual capacity by 2030. To learn more about FREYR, please visit www.freyrbattery.com

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

All statements, other than statements of present or historical fact included in this press release, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expected results. Most of these factors are outside FREYR’s control and are difficult to predict. Additional information about factors that could materially affect FREYR is set forth under the “Risk Factors” section in (i) FREYR’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on September 1, 2022 and (ii) FREYR's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 that was filed with the SEC on February 27, 2023, available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

Except as otherwise required by applicable law, FREYR disclaims any duty to update any forward-looking statements, all of which are expressly qualified by the statements in this section, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release. Should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results and projections could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.

Source: FREYR Battery...
Article 2: Reference: 20210736

Release date: 27 June 2022

Promoter – Financial Intermediary

Location

Description

FREYR BATTERY SA

The project concerns the construction and operation of a large plant for industrial scale production of clean lithium-ion battery cells in Norway. The cells are to be sold for making Battery Energy Storage Systems. The project seeks to implement an innovative manufacturing process technology under a technology license agreement that will allow higher resource and energy efficiencies compared to conventional technologies. By the use of renewable power, the project aims to produce battery cells with the lowest carbon footprint. The promoter aims to use sustainably sourced and traceable materials. The project's core strategy is to develop a European battery industry and accelerate the decarbonisation of energy and transportation systems.

Objectives

The project concerns the manufacturing of a new type of advanced li-ion electrodes and battery cells and could make a substantial contribution to the development of a European battery industry. The objective is to cater for the energy transition by supplying the growing demand for Battery Energy Storage Systems with cutting-edge battery cells that offer higher energy density, longer lifetime, improved safety, lower cost, sustainably sourced materials, and near-zero carbon footprint.

Sector(s)

Industry - Manufacturing

Proposed EIB finance (Approximate amount)

not disclosed

Total cost (Approximate amount)

not disclosed

Environmental aspects

The project concerns capital investments for the production of lithium-ion electrodes, cells and batteries, falling under the EIA Directive 2014/52/EU amending the EIA Directive 2011/92/EU. All environmental, health and safety issues including environmental and operational authorisations will be reviewed during the due diligence process.

Procurement

The Promoter has been assessed by the EIB as being a private company not subject to EU rules on public procurement or concessions. However, if at the project appraisal, the EIB were to conclude that the Promoter is subject to the EU public procurement legislation then the Bank would duly inform the Commission Services and would require the Promoter to apply those rules.

Status

Under appraisal - 5/01/2022...
Article 3: FREYR Battery Awarded €100 Million EU Innovation Fund Grant

NEW YORK, OSLO, Norway & LUXEMBOURG--FREYR Battery (NYSE: FREY) (“FREYR”), a developer of clean, next-generation battery cell production capacity, has announced that the company has been awarded a €100 million grant from the European Union (“EU”) to support development of FREYR’s Giga Arctic project in Norway. The grant will be funded through the EU’s Innovation Fund (“EUIF”) as part of the EU’s efforts to promote localized production of battery solutions.

“We are delighted with the news we have received from the EU’s Innovation Fund to support FREYR’s Giga Arctic project,” remarked Tom Einar Jensen, FREYR’s Co-Founder and CEO. “This grant is a recognition that batteries represent the key catalyst of the energy transition supporting regional energy security through faster deployment of renewable energy. Moreover, this significant financial commitment provides timely support to continued development of the Giga Arctic project, which is intended to bring clean battery products to our customers and partners across Europe. We look forward to working with the EUIF as well as the Norwegian Government to unlock further momentum for next generation battery production capacity at GWh scale in Norway.”

Giga Arctic, which has been under development since FREYR’s Board of Directors sanctioned the start of construction in June 2022, is designed to be a 29 GWh nameplate capacity facility based on the 24M Technologies SemiSolidTM manufacturing platform and powered with 100% renewable hydroelectricity.

According to a report recently published by Minviro, a life cycle assessment company and independent third-party commissioned by FREYR, the annual production at the planned Giga Arctic facility in Norway could enable FREYR’s customers to mitigate 80 million tons of CO2 emissions over the batteries’ lifetime when used for renewable Energy Storage Systems (ESS). The projected emissions mitigation corresponds to almost twice the total amount of CO2 emitted in Norway annually.

- The broad support from the EU's innovation fund shows that Norwegian industry and business are very close to innovation and technology development. The five projects that receive support all point towards the transformation we are facing as a society. Enova supports those who go ahead and there is therefore every reason to congratulate, says CEO of Enova Nils Kristian Nakstad

The EU’s Innovation Fund is one of the world’s largest funding opportunities for projects designed to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The fund targets highly innovative technologies and large-scale, flagship initiatives that can bring more value to Europe in terms of transitioning to a low-carbon continent.

About FREYR Battery

FREYR Battery aims to provide industrial scale clean battery solutions to reduce global emissions. Listed on the New York Stock Exchange, FREYR’s mission is to produce green battery cells to accelerate the decarbonization of energy and transportation systems globally. FREYR has commenced building the first of its planned factories in Mo i Rana, Norway and announced potential development of industrial scale battery cell production in the United States and Vaasa, Finland. FREYR intends to install 50 GWh of battery cell capacity by 2025 and 100 GWh annual capacity by 2028 and 200 GWh of annual capacity by 2030. To learn more about FREYR, please visit www.freyrbattery.com

Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements

All statements, other than statements of present or historical fact included in this press release, are forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements involve significant risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from the expected results. Most of these factors are outside FREYR’s control and are difficult to predict. Additional information about factors that could materially affect FREYR is set forth under the “Risk Factors” section in (i) FREYR’s Registration Statement on Form S-3 filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the “SEC”) on September 1, 2022 and (ii) FREYR's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2022 that was filed with the SEC on February 27, 2023, available on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.

Except as otherwise required by applicable law, FREYR disclaims any duty to update any forward-looking statements, all of which are expressly qualified by the statements in this section, to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this press release. Should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual results and projections could differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements.

Contacts

Investor contact:

Jeffrey Spittel

Vice President, Investor Relations

jeffrey.spittel@freyrbattery.com

Tel: (+1) 281-222-0161

Media contact:

Hilde Rønningsen

Director Communication

hilde.ronningsen@freyrbattery.com

Tel: (+47) 453 97 184...
Article 4: The European Commission is funding 41 clean-tech projects with more than 3.6 billion euros – including several battery projects. According to the list of selected projects, BASF is planning a battery recycling plant in Tarragona, Spain, which has yet to be officially announced.

The 41 clean-tech projects are spread across 15 member states and are subsidised through the EU Innovation Fund. The projects cover many areas, including the battery sector for electric vehicles. According to the Commission, all 41 projects will be operational before 2030 and “have the potential to avoid 221 million tonnes of CO2 emissions in the first ten years of operation.”

The projects were selected following the third call for funding for large-scale projects covering four topics: general decarbonisation, industry electrification and hydrogen, clean tech manufacturing, and mid-sized pilots. In addition to the 41 projects now made public, the Commission says that “other promising but insufficiently mature projects will receive project development assistance from the European Investment Bank.” These will be announced in the fourth quarter of 2023. The fourth funding call with a budget of 4 billion euros is also planned at that time.

Current emobility-related funding recipients include Freyr, Vianode, Stora Enso and BASF. Freyr, for example, will receive 100 million euros from the EU to build its Giga Arctic battery cell factory in Norway. Vianode’s planned factory for graphite-based anode materials, which the EU will subsidise with 90 million euros, will also be located in Norway. Both companies name the subsidy amounts in their press releases. The EU Commission’s list does not show how the 3.6 billion euros are distributed among the 41 projects.

Thus, it remains to be seen how high the subsidy for Stora Enso and BASF will be. The EU supports Stora Enso to build “a commercial scale plant” called Lignode One to produce sustainable bio-based anode material for batteries in Finland. Stora Enso’s “Lignode” technology uses, among other things, lignin-based hard coal from Nordic forest wood. A development cooperation exists with Northvolt, among others.

BASF, meanwhile, will receive funds from the EU to construct a battery recycling plant in Tarragona, Spain, which has yet to be officially announced. According to a brief description in the funding list, this will be the “first industrial deployment of an innovative recycling plant for battery materials based on an innovative pyrolysis for black mass and an innovative hydrometallurgical refining process.” The process technology allows “very high Li recovery rates.”

According to the EU Commission, the 41 projects were selected from 239 applications. About 196 were approved for evaluation as “eligible.” Independent experts then made the final selection based on five award criteria. Decisive factors were the ability to reduce greenhouse gas emissions compared to conventional technologies, the degree of innovation, operational, financial and technical maturity, scalability and cost-effectiveness.

ec.europa.eu, climate.ec.europa.eu (list of projects), ir.freyrbattery.com (Freyr), vianode.com (Vianode)...
