Article 1: First EIB loan to LG Chem Group and its Polish subsidiary will support the construction of manufacturing facilities for advanced lithium-ion cells and batteries for battery-powered electric vehicles

The project will contribute to the clean energy transition and the shift towards electrification of the European transport industry and secure the supply of advanced li-ion batteries for European car makers

The project will have important spillovers with technological transfer, the creation of around 1 800 jobs and research and development activities in Poland

The European Investment Bank (EIB) has signed a €480 million loan agreement with LG Chem Wroclaw Energy, the Polish subsidiary of the LG Chem Group that was established to develop the group’s battery production facility in Europe. The financing will be used for the construction and operation of highly automated and innovative manufacturing facilities for advanced lithium-ion (li-ion) cells and batteries for battery-powered electric vehicles (BEVs). The EIB financing will cover around a third of the total project costs, estimated at €1.5 billion. The remainder will come from the company’s own resources and from other financing sources.

The additional manufacturing facilities will be located on the industrial site of LG Chem Wroclaw Energy in south-west Poland.

The project supplements smaller production facilities on the same site and presents several novelties, including a fully smart factory with several newly developed cutting-edge technologies to mass-produce the latest generation of high energy density li-ion electrodes, cells, modules and battery packs, thereby significantly improving energy density, fast-charging capability, safety and cost efficiency.

The EIB-backed project will have an annual production capacity of over 35 GWh, which can potentially power more than 500 000 zero-emission electric cars per year and therefore contribute to the transition from fossil fuel-powered internal combustion engine-based vehicles toward electromobility and sustainable transport.

Teresa Czerwinska, Vice-President of the European Investment Bank, who oversees operations in Poland, said: “This first EIB operation with LG Chem Wroclaw Energy is significant for many reasons. It helps Europe to build a critical mass in electric vehicle battery production at a pivotal time of electric vehicle commercialisation in Europe; it promotes a shift to electromobility and to a greener automotive industry; and it helps create new qualified jobs in an industrial region in transition to a new economic model. Today’s operation proves that with the right partners and the right projects in place we can combine cohesion objectives with innovation and strong climate action.”

Jeong Joon Ha, CFO of LG Chem Wroclaw Energy Sp. z o.o., said: “We would like to express our gratitude to the EIB team. The loan provides our company with the resources to create a competitive battery value chain in Europe and Poland. Furthermore, it enables the LG Chem Group to take the lead in terms of growth of the European battery market and community development.”

LG Chem’s increasing commitment in Europe and in Poland is expected to positively contribute to the development of the European electric vehicles battery market. This includes a potential expansion of the relevant supply chain and the accumulation of critical knowledge, particularly in the area of battery production technologies, creating an eco-system that will help develop innovative solutions for this emerging industry in Europe. The investment has already attracted over a dozen specialised component suppliers and service companies to set up shop in the region with a view to supplying LG Chem as well as other industrial players. Moreover, the company plans to further enhance existing cooperation programmes with the Technical University of Wroclaw for developing dedicated studies, internships and training. In parallel, the company will expand its technology centre in Wroclaw in order to further improve production processes and develop next generation batteries.

The implementation of the new investment programme will enable the company to ramp up its battery capacity output to ca. 65 GWh, making the Polish facility one of the largest lithium-ion cell factories in the world. Moreover, more than 1 800 jobs will be created at the Wroclaw site, taking the total workforce up to more than 6 000 full-time employees by end-2022.

Background information:

LG Chem is South Korea’s largest diversified chemical company, which operates four main business portfolios: Petrochemicals, Energy Solutions, Advanced Materials and Life Sciences. The chemical business manufactures a wide range of petrochemical products from high value-added to commodity goods. LG Chem also extends its chemical expertise into high-tech areas such as lithium-ion batteries, industrial and automotive materials, drugs and vaccines to deliver a broad range of differentiated solutions to our customers. Through multiple production facilities and an extensive distribution network worldwide, LG Chem employs approximately 40 000 people and generated sales of €21 381 million in 2019. For more information, please visit www.lgchem.com

LG Chem Wroclaw Energy is a fully-owned Poland-based subsidiary of LG Chem, incorporated in 2016. Since then, the company launched its first manufacturing plant producing lithium-ion batteries for use in electric vehicles and energy storage systems. In response to soaring demand from local customers, the company plans to build a fully integrated production system that will make all battery components from electrodes to cells, modules and packs for the first time in Europe....
Article 2: LG Energy Solution broadens next-generation battery research partnerships by teaming with University of Münster and Forschungszentrum Jülich in Germany following cooperation with UCSD in U.S. and KAIST in Korea

following cooperation with UCSD in U.S. and KAIST in Korea Battery manufacturer and two German research institutes to focus on developing next-generation electrolyte and a green process for lithium-ion battery manufacturing

SEOUL, South Korea, June 6, 2022 /PRNewswire/ -- LG Energy Solution (LGES; 373220) is expanding its joint battery research programs with leading institutions across the world as it aims to drive next-generation battery technology amid the fast-changing industry.

LGES today announced that it is partnering up with academic organizations in Germany. The company will be working with Münster Electrochemical Energy Technology (MEET) of University of Münster and Helmholtz Institute Münster (HI MS) of Forschungszentrum Jülich. These institutions will take part in a joint battery research program funded by LGES's Frontier Research Laboratory (FRL).

Researchers from all three parties (LGES, MEET and HI MS) will be working on a research for the next generation lithium-ion battery technology using green materials and processes. In particular, the joint research team will be looking into ways to boost battery cell performance including its energy density and cycle life.

Through its FRL programs, LG Energy Solution has been leading the industry by continuously driving battery-related studies with prestigious academia across the world.

LG Energy Solution first established the FRL program with the University of California San Diego to develop a new type of an all-solid-state battery by putting together a solid-state electrolyte and advanced electrode techniques.

Separately, LGES started the FRL program with Korea Advanced Institute of Science and Technology (KAIST), a national university, for base techniques on elements of next-generation batteries last October.

LG Energy Solution said it will continue to expand its FRL program globally as it hopes to explore and preoccupy next-generation battery techniques while offering scientists to focus on battery-related researches.

"Through multiple FRL programs worldwide, LG Energy Solution will thrive to lead the commercialization of next-generation battery techniques," said Youngjoon Shin, Chief Technology Officer of LG Energy Solution.

About LG Energy Solution

LG Energy Solution (KRX: 373220), a split-off from LG Chem, is a leading global manufacturer of lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles, mobility, IT, and energy storage systems. With 30 years of experience in revolutionary battery technology and extensive research and development (R&D), the company is the top battery-related patent holder in the world with over 24,000 patents. Its robust global network, which spans North America, Europe, Asia, and Australia, includes battery manufacturing facilities established through joint ventures with major automakers such as General Motors, Stellantis N.V. and Hyundai Motor Group. At the forefront of green business and sustainability, LG Energy Solution aims to achieve carbon neutral operations by 2050, while embodying the value of shared growth and promoting diverse and inclusive corporate culture. To learn more about LG Energy Solution's ideas and innovations, visit https://www.lgensol.com.

SOURCE LG Energy Solution...
Article 3: EBRD loan of €250 million for construction of LG Chem battery gigafactory

Facility in Wrocław, western Poland, to supply EU electric vehicle manufacturers

Switch to electric cars will greatly reduce CO 2 emissions

The EBRD is powering the revolution in electric vehicles. A long-term loan of €250 million will support the construction of a battery gigafactory in Wrocław in western Poland by LG Chem, one of the world’s leading chemical groups.

The facility was established to produce lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles. It is the first and currently the only fully integrated plant in Europe to produce all battery components, ranging from electrodes to cells, modules and final packs.

The move to electric vehicles is seen as imperative to reduce CO 2 emissions and reach targets in addressing the challenges of climate change. The EU is aiming for a climate-neutral economy by 2050.

The LG Chem plant in Wrocław is a major step in this direction: with a total investment of €2.8 billion in three stages, when completed in 2022 the factory is expected to reach a production capacity of around 65-70 GWh a year.

This will allow the company to supply batteries for up to 1 million electric vehicles per year (approximately six per cent of cars sold in Europe), resulting in the reduction of over 1 million tonnes of CO 2 emissions per year.

The plant in Wrocław will also have a sizeable impact on the local labour market. The company employs 2,700 people and plans to hire an additional 1,000 skilled employees by 2022.

Frederic Lucenet, EBRD Global Head of Industries, said: “We are proud to support this landmark investment, which will lead the green transformation of Europe’s automotive sector. In all its industrial projects across all 38 economies in which the EBRD invests, the Bank is investing in priority and in majority for the decarbonisation of the hard-to-abate sectors. Becoming part of LG Chem’s ambitious venture in Poland illustrates that the EBRD is up for it.”

LG Chem added: “We are very delighted with our cooperation with the EBRD. Such support from the EBRD proves the promising future of EV business and LG Chem’s leading position in the manufacturing of batteries. We hope the EBRD will remain a committed long-term partner.”

To date, the EBRD has invested €9.9 billion in 420 projects in Poland....
Article 4: LG Chem (the top EV battery supplier so far this year) is on a mission to greatly expand its manufacturing capacity within the next few years.

The plan is to expand from about 100-120 GWh annually (level available in the late 2020), to 260 GWh by 2023! That would be enough to equip with batteries some 5 million electric cars (assuming 50 kWh per pack).

The company is looking for a new site in Europe to invest in one more battery plant - on top of the two facilities in Poland, which together are the biggest in the portfolio:

LG Chem plants:

According to the Reuters' article, LG Chem is in talks with a "couple" of automakers to create joint ventures for cell production. So far two were established - one with Geely in China, and one with GM in Ohio.

Regardless of whether LG Chem will be an independent supplier or JV-partner for a particular automaker, it seems that the expansion is a hot topic these days. One of the largest elements of the growing demand in 2020 was Tesla with its Giga Shanghai plant. LG Chem picked up the opportunity that Panasonic - previously dominant Tesla's battery supplier - skipped.

“We are in talks to expand cooperation with almost all automakers, and Tesla is one of them,”.

The next chapter would be the split of the battery business to a new wholly-owned subsidiary - LG Energy Solutions. Up to 30% of the company is expected to be listed in an IPO at some point in 2021/2022.

See also...
