Article 1: A man walks past a sign of SVOLT Energy Technology Co at Great Wall’s HAVAL technology center in Baoding, Hebei province, China July 9 2019. REUTERS/Yilei Sun Acquire Licensing Rights

April 13 (Reuters) - Chinese battery maker SVOLT Energy Technology Co is set to expand its footprint in Europe to as many as five factories, Bloomberg News reported on Thursday.

SVOLT is looking at locations in eastern, northern and western Europe, with one larger site in the 20-gigawatt range, according to the report.

The company is targeting production capacity of at least 50 gigawatt-hours in Europe by the end of the decade, SVOLT Europe head Kai-Uwe Wollenhaupt said in an interview with Bloomberg.

The company in September last year unveiled plans to build an additional cell assembly in Germany to supply electric vehicles, picking the state of Brandenburg, which is also home to Tesla Inc's (TSLA.O) gigafactory, as a location.

SVOLT also plans to build a plant in Saarland.

Besides, SVOLT is in talks with several European car makers about battery cell supply agreements, the Bloomberg report said.

Asian companies dominate battery-making in Europe. Data shows some 44% of planned battery capacity in Europe by 2030 is expected from Asian companies, with Chinese battery giant CATL on top of the list.

SVOLT did not immediately respond to a Reuters request for comment.

Reporting by Kanjyik Ghosh in Bengaluru; Editing by Shilpi Majumdar

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles....
Article 2: The battery manufacturer SVOLT, which emerged from the Chinese carmaker Great Wall, is reportedly planning to build five battery cell factories in Europe. Two are confirmed for Germany so far.

The information from SVOLT was picked up by Bloomberg with reference to statements by Kai-Uwe Wollenhaupt, head of SVOLT Europe. According to the report, talks are said to be underway to supply carmakers in the region. According to the report, SVOLT hopes to conclude three deals by the middle of the year. In total, the company is aiming for a production capacity of at least 50 gigawatt-hours in Europe by the end of the decade, it says. That would be enough to power up to one million electric cars, it said.

“The battery industry in Europe is really taking off,” Wollenhaupt said. “We could develop our sites even faster if we had more resources like land and skilled workers available.”

SVOLT has already announced two sites in Germany, one of which will supply Stellantis from 2025. The conversion of an existing plant into a 12-gigawatt facility in Lauchhammer, Brandenburg, is currently underway. The start of construction of an announced 2-billion-euro factory in Saarland was recently postponed to at least 2027 due to local protests. At least SVOLT signed the lease for its future factory for the assembly of modules and packs at the Heusweiler site in Saarland in December. However, this does not fall under the potential five production sites in Europe where cells are to come off the production line.

Bloomberg writes that the company remains committed to the plans in Saarland and that SVOLT’s strategy is to target smaller production facilities that are less demanding on local resources. “We are not fans of huge factories,” Wollenhaupt is quoted as saying. Since there is often a lack of qualified labour in areas that offer sufficient industrial space. In addition, he says, water consumption is considerable, which can create a public headwind.

The company is said to be currently looking at sites in Eastern, Northern and Western Europe – including a larger site in the 20-gigawatt range.

Separately, SVOLT unveiled a battery pack innovation just before the end of the year that is designed to provide increased safety and enable greater range. The new ‘Dragon Armor Battery’ has been available for pre-order worldwide since December and is expected to be used in the first production models in 2023.

As with BYD’s Blade battery and CATL’s Qilin battery, SVOLT’s Dragon Armor Battery is not a new cell chemistry with higher energy density, but a newly designed battery pack. Depending on the chemistry of the cells used in the Dragon Armor Battery, ranges of over 800 kilometres (LFP) to over 1,000 kilometres (NCM) should be possible.

bloomberg.com...
Article 3: SVOLT has confirmed building another cell factory for the European battery industry in Germany. The new site at Lauchhammer, Brandenburg, is a former wind turbine plant owned by Vestas. The company aims to repurpose it fast, by early 2025.

This is to make up for the delays SVOLT is now facing in Saarland. The Chinese company has been planning to produce battery cells in central Europe for some time and had confirmed factories in the German state of Saarland in November 2020. SVOLT aims to make cells near the town of Überherrn, close to a battery assembly in Heusweiler, also Saarland. However, the new plans in Brandenburg come on the back of said delays at the Saarland sites. We will come to these later.

Yet there are other reasons for Lauchhammer. Brandenburg, the state that surrounds Berlin, lies along the region’s supply chain and battery life cycle. There is, for example, the chemical company BASF which entered a partnership with SVOLT for battery materials and recycling at the end of 2021. BASF is currently building a cathode material factory, including a recycling pilot plant, in Schwarzheide, less than 7 kilometres from Lauchhammer.

SVOLT is planning to start production in Brandenburg in early 2025, Maxim Hantsch-Kramskoj, VP of Sales & Marketing of SVOLT Europe, told journalists. The company targets an initial capacity of 16 GWh.

That sounds like construction will quick (and rushed). The former Vestas site is a so-called brownfield project. SVOLT says it took over the plant, including buildings and infrastructure, from the previous owner at the end of August and will now “repurpose the majority of the existing halls”. However, rebuilding measures and extension works will also be necessary and realised in the near future, so SVOLT. The company adds that it was developing a master plan including a detailed schedule for all modernisation and building measures.

SVOLT sites in Saarland facing delays

At the same time, the construction of the Saarland sites will take much longer than planned. According to the Saarbrücker Zeitung paper, Kramskoy does not expect SVOLT to produce battery cells in Überherrn before 2027 – that is four years later than initially announced.

Even though Heusweiler builds on an existing building like Brandenburg, there would also be delays at this second Saarland site for the assembly of modules and packs, the manager said. Production was supposed to start in the middle of this year with parts from other SVOLT plants. Now the company says it will only begin assembly by February 2024.

Hantsch-Kramskoj did not detail the reasons for the delay but pointed to the project being “very complex”. Following experts, they would now reach master planning. The Saarland sites would get the time they require, he said.

SVOLT has to deliver, first from Brandenburg

Still, SVOLT has to deliver another driver for selecting the Lauchhammer site reasonably quickly. So far, PSA is confirmed as a customer and signed an option for 7 GWh as reported.

Kai-Uwe Wollenhaupt, President of SVOLT Europe & VP of SVOLT Energy Technology, said he was happy that they were able to conclude the conversations with Vestas timely and take over the site.

Mirko Buhr, Mayor of the City of Lauchhammer, also went on to “explicitly thank all those involved for their dedicated efforts to bring a successor company to the former Vestas site as swiftly as possible.”

The site offers 255,000 square metres of space, and SVOLT has the right of first refusal on an adjacent free area of another 71,000 sqm.

Hantsch-Kramskoj referred to the project as a “gigafactory” when speaking to the local press. Even if put in Tesla-speak, the new factory won’t compare to the Tesla plant in Grünheide, about 150 kilometres away.

As for synergies between the plants in Brandenburg and Saarland, SVOLT expects to utilise battery cells produced in Lauchhammer at the future assembly site in Heusweiler. At least until the Saarland cell factory comes online. SVOLT aims to produce between 22 and 32 Gwh, double the 16 GWh in Brandenburg. That is batteries for about 300,000 to 500,000 e-vehicles per year.

SVOLT has not disclosed which cells may be made in Brandenburg (and Saarland). However, the company has pushed cobalt-free battery cells since July 2019. These have undergone testing for at least two years now.

Plus, the battery maker that came out of Great Wall Motors reportedly produced a prototype batch of 20 Ah cells with a solid electrolyte based on sulphide only a few weeks ago in China. The prototype solid-state cells have an energy density of 350-400 Wh/kg. This is in line with SVOLT’s earlier tests, and the result promises a range of over 1,000 kilometres for electric cars in future.

svolt-eu.com, saarbruecker-zeitung.de (delay Saarland, in German)...
Article 4: Why did this happen?

Please make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy....
