Article 1: General view outside the Northvolt facility in Vasteras, Sweden, September 29, 2021. Picture taken September 29, 2021. REUTERS/Helena Soderpalm. Acquire Licensing Rights

Summary

Companies Northvolt could invest 3-5 bln euros in plant - sources

Over 600 mln subsidies for Northvolt pending approval - source

Europe, U.S. jostling for green industrial investments

Northvolt may build two plants in parallel - spokesperson

STOCKHOLM/BERLIN, May 12 (Reuters) - Two electric vehicle battery makers plan to spend around 10 billion euros ($11 billion) on factories in Europe, they said on Friday, after Europe loosened state aid rules for green industry projects in a bid to win the subsidy race with the U.S.

Both plants will start production in 2026, employ thousands of people and supply batteries to European car makers.

After months of worry that it would opt for an investment in North America over Europe, Sweden's Northvolt said it is set to pick Heide in northern Germany for its factory as long as subsidies are approved, estimated by one source close to the matter to be over 600 million euros.

Taiwan's ProLogium, meanwhile, announced a new plant in the French city of Dunkirk after France offered deal sweeteners and competitive power prices, executives from the company said.

With Taiwan a focal point in tensions between Washington and Beijing, the company also wanted to secure a base overseas.

Europe, home to carmakers such as Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE) and BMW (BMWG.DE), has been trying to lower dependency on Asian countries for batteries that will power green electric cars, though the region still relies heavily on Asia for sourcing and processing raw materials like lithium, cobalt and manganese.

High energy prices and a lack of subsidies comparable to the $430-billion U.S. Inflation Reduction Act has prompted companies from Volkswagen to utility Enel and cement maker Holcim to call on the European Union to do more to encourage investment.

Volkswagen was expected to announce a battery plant location in Europe late last year but said in March it is awaiting more clarity from Europe on subsidies before making a decision.

For Northvolt, Europe's 'Temporary Crisis and Transition Framework' (TCTF) which simplifies conditions for countries to grant aid to green projects and allowed Germany more freedom in offering support for the battery plant, helped firm up its plans to build in the region, a spokesperson said.

How energy prices could be brought down was unclear, the spokesperson added, though supply is not a concern given high amounts of offshore wind near the plant's planned location.

Northvolt, alongside Volkswagen, is the furthest ahead among just a handful of European players paving the way for a home-grown battery industry, with a large chunk of planned capacity in Europe to be owned by Asian players.

The plant by Taiwan's ProLogium would be its first overseas car battery factory. French President Emmanuel Macron lobbied for the factory to beat other contestants like Germany and the Netherlands.

Both Germany and France sweetened the subsidy pot after the U.S. last year unveiled its major tax subsidies to boost domestic manufacturing.

The subsidies for Northvolt would be the first provided by Germany under Europe's TCTF programme, adopted in response to Russia's invasion of Ukraine and expanded this year to support green transition projects.

The support still needs the approval of the European Commission.

A second plant could also be constructed in parallel elsewhere, a Northvolt spokesperson said, including in North America.

Foreign and domestic companies have invested in Germany to feed its growing EV industry. CATL (300750.SZ), which has been expanding rapidly outside China, is ramping up production of its plant near Erfurt in Germany and BASF (BASFn.DE) is building a battery materials site in Schwarzheide, eastern Germany.

U.S. Microvast (MVST.O), meanwhile, built a factory in Ludwigsfelde, south of Berlin.

(This story has been corrected to say production, not construction in paragraph 2)

Reporting by Victoria Waldersee, Supantha Mukherjee, Andreas Rinke Editing by Friederike Heine, Mark Potter and Sharon Singleton

Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles....
Article 2: With an investment of more than 20 million euros, the company wants to meet the continuing strong demand. Further investments are planned.

VARTA AG is investing in the growth market of renewable energies: In the summer, its new factory for energy storage systems will go into operation. In future, up to 100,000 energy storage systems per year will be produced on a total area of more than 5000 square metres at the Neunheim site in Ellwangen, Baden-Württemberg. With an average capacity of ten kilowatt hours per energy storage system, the production output will then correspond to more than one gigawatt hour per year.

Production is highly automated and uses the latest Industry 4.0 technologies, including robots and laser welding processes. The Ellwangen-based technology company is investing more than 20 million euros for this. Further investments are planned. A total of around 120 jobs will be created at the new plant.

Dominik Gluba, General Manager of VARTA Energy Storage: "Growth in the home storage market continues unabated. In the first quarter of 2023, more than 110,000 new storage units were installed in Germany. For the first half of the year, we expect almost 240,000 new installations in Germany. With the production capacities of the new Gigafactory, we can adapt well to the growing market."

The expansion of production will take place in two stages: Starting in the fourth quarter of 2023, the production output should be around 500 megawatt hours per year, which corresponds to about 50,000 storage systems. The output is then to be increased to one gigawatt hour by the beginning of 2025 at the latest.

The investment in the future market of renewable energies is part of VARTA AG's overall strategic concept. The company had announced that it would target growth markets even more specifically with innovative products as part of its restructuring.

The production facility in the immediate vicinity of the VARTA headquarters in Ellwangen underlines the loyalty of the tradition-rich company to production in Germany. With direct access to the A7 motorway, the new factory is well connected and accessible to the surrounding metropolises of Ulm, Würzburg and Stuttgart. A further expansion of the site is already under consideration: Additional production lines are to be added in the near future, and expansion areas have already been planned on site....
Article 3: Projects are being launched by newcomers like FREYR and Northvolt, automotive OEMs like Tesla and VW, and established cell producers from East Asia like BYD, LG Chem and CATL. Most planned capacity is set to go to the EV market rather than stationary energy storage, but a bottleneck in the supply of the former has knock-on effects on the latter.

CATL this week announced a second battery gigafactory project in Hungary, after its first in Germany which it told Energy-Storage.news was ‘going smoothly as planned’ and is set to start battery cell production by the end of 2022 as scheduled.

However, many projects will not open on time according to analysts looking at the market.

A snapshot of Europe’s gigafactory projects, taken from Dr Heiner Heimes’ ‘Battery Atlas’ of the European sector. Image: Battery-News.De.

Long lead times

Dr Heiner Heimes, an academic specialising in battery production at RWTH Aachen University in Germany, and co-author of Battery-News.De‘s reports on the topic, told Energy-Storage.news that long lead times for equipment are proving a major challenge.

“Nearly all of the projects have some delay, though not all talk about it. But if you look at the current delivery times it’s clear we’ll see delays because it’s very hard right now to get the different components for the production equipment,” he said.

“But, these delays won’t be critical. A delay of three or six months won’t lead to investors saying ‘we have to stop everything’. And the good thing is, we haven’t seen one project that’s been cancelled entirely.”

Another analyst, research firm Delta-EE’s head of flexibility and storage Jon Ferris, did suggest that some gigafactories might not open at all. He cited a shortage of lithium carbonate as the main bottleneck affecting plans, and that some of the earliest projects have switched to producing lithium iron phosphate (LFP) batteries due to shortages in nickel, manganese and cobalt (NMC).

Delta-EE’s data shows that roughly a quarter of the c.40 major gigafactory projects, outlined in Battery-News.De‘s map, have been delayed. But many have also increased their nameplate capacity plans so overall the picture is still one of growth rather than volumes being pushed back.

First pulled gigafactory project?

One project which has has been widely reported as substantially delayed or even pulled entirely is that of Chinese company Farasis Energy, partner to automotive group Daimler, in Bitterfeld-Wolfen, Germany. An initial production start date of 2022 was reportedly pushed to 2024 and there are now doubts it may happen at all.

Outlet Mitteldeutsche Zeitung reported in May that the urban development contract between Farasis and the local council for the project had been terminated, citing official statements by both parties. But, as Dr Heimes alluded to, plans for a gigafactory project in Europe have not been officially cancelled by the company.

FREYR Battery

One of those to have both pushed back its initial planned start date for commercial production but doubled annual production capacity targets is Norway-based gigafactory company FREYR Battery. Company presentations as recent as February 2022 expected the start-up of production lines in its first gigafactory in late 2023 while the company is now targeting the start of production in the first half of 2024.

However, CEO Tom Jensen told Energy-Storage.news in a recent interview that this change in timeline was due to the company’s capital raise through going public last year happening 4-5 months later than planned, along with the process to combine and optimise its first two gigafactories into one.

“Given Covid, given everything, we like to say that we’re reasonably in line with what we’ve said previously. Of course, there is a month here and there because of things like the China shutdown and so on, but we’ve been able to mitigate the worst of that. In that way we can get up to the nameplate capacity a steady run rate of volume more or less in line with what we’ve been saying before,” he said.

“But it’s been a very difficult environment in which to do that. So when we’re saying that we’re reasonably on track, of course, it’s not one-to-one but it’s roughly there.”

Discussing how the company has been able to double capacity targets, he explained: “We see that we can upscale production with the 24M platform, that we have a replicable industrialisation blueprint which can be exported to other jurisdictions, and of course we see that both the incentives and demand in the market are booming.”

Kontrolmatik

In the same press release announcing an expansion of its planned US facility, Turkish company Kontrolmatik Technologies said its LFP gigafactory on home soil ‘…will begin production by the second quarter of 2023’.

When asked if this meant a delay, considering previous statements by the subsidiary responsible for the projects that its first phase of capacity would ‘head to production by end of 2022‘ and ‘be fully operational by 2022 Q4‘, Kontrolmatik’s USA CEO Bahadir Yetki told Energy-Storage.news:

“There are no delays in our factory construction in Turkey indeed as planned. Factory will be completed at the end of this year, but commercial production will start as of second quarter of 2023 following a quarter of commissioning, training, testing and certification.

“Factory will be finished by the end of 2022 to start its production but commercial production will take another 3 months of pilot production, testing and certification. You can still accept end of 2022 as the completion of the construction and start of the production. We will only start “selling” by the 2Q 2023. If we can make all testing and certification ready before that we can always start commercial operations earlier.”

Changing battery chemistry to get around lithium shortages

One way to get around delays due to difficulties in securing the raw materials needed for production is to switch battery chemistry. Ferris and Dr Heimes both pointed to the switch to LFP amongst some projects although Dr Heimes said the majority are still planning for NMC ones, which have a higher energy density reflecting the market’s focus on EVs.

But shortages in lithium carbonate may open up an opportunity for non-lithium batteries which can at least partially slot in to lithium battery production lines. The founder of potassium-ion battery startup Alex Girau recently pitched its technology as the one most well-placed to do this.

Handful of gigafactory projects online this year

Lithium-ion gigafactories reported to start production this year in Europe include CATL’s in Germany, a second facility in Hungary from SK Innovation, and two in Germany and France from from Automotive Cells Company, a new company backed by Saft, Stellantis and Mercedes.

But with announcements generally only revealing the annual production capacity for latter stages of facilities’ ramp-up, it is unclear how much production capacity these will cumulatively add initially....
Article 4: The battery manufacturer Varta aims to get involved in the market for electric car battery cells in the future. Up to now, the German company has primarily produced batteries for household electronics but has been involved in cell research for some time.

According to the German business publication Wirtschaftswoche, the new large-format battery cell 21700 is at the centre of Varta’s plans. The paper refers to “circles close to the company”, Varta itself did not want to comment on the topic. The company is currently building a pilot line for the 21700 cells at its headquarters in Ellwangen. According to the report, these are initially to be used primarily in high-performance electric cars – “for example as a short-term accelerator or as part of drive concepts in which the battery is permanently recharged by a motor while driving”, it says. Varta is currently in talks with several car manufacturers about this.

In the course of research activities, Varta is already known to many players in the electromobility industry – be it for the development of digitalised large-scale production of large-format battery cells alongside Fraunhofer IPA and ZSW or, more recently, for the creation of novel battery separators made of glass together with the University of Bayreuth and Tesla.

However, Varta moved into the limelight first and foremost with its participation in the first battery IPCEI (“Important Projects of Common European Interest”) of the European Union and with subsidies amounting to 300 million euros, which were granted to the company by the federal government and also by the states of Bavaria and Baden-Württemberg in 2022. According to the report, two-thirds of this sum will flow into the research and development of the new 21700 cells. The subsidies, which the European Commission approved under state aid law, can be drawn down by Varta until the end of 2024.

When the funding notifications were handed over in June last year, it was specifically stated that Varta would work on two projects: In addition to developing the latest generation of small-format lithium-ion cells with higher energy densities, the company plans to focus on transferring its technology to larger cell formats, for example for electric cars. However, the larger cells should also be able to be used in stationary battery storage or robots, for example.

In the course of setting up a pilot line for the new 21700 cells in Ellwangen, Varta is planning a recruitment drive: the group announced in mid-2020 that it intends to create around 1,000 new jobs in the German towns of Ellwangen and Nördlingen by the end of 2021. For Varta, this is enormous growth: the company currently has around 4,000 employees.

wiwo.de (in German)...
