Article 1: {'title': 'CALB to build battery plant in Europe', 'published_date': '2022-01-03 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'The Chinese battery manufacturer CALB (China Lithium Battery Technology) is now also planning a factory in Europe. An annual capacity of 20 GWh is planned. There is no further information on the location and timetable so far – but Germany seems to be in the running.\n\nFor the construction of the battery factory, the Chinese company has now concluded a strategic agreement with Drees & Sommer, a consulting firm for the construction and real estate sector with headquarters in Germany.\n\nThe signing of the agreement took place back in December at an event in the Innovation Industry Park in Jiangsu. The event was organised by the East Chinese province of Jinagsu, the city of Changzhou, the German Chamber of Commerce in China and the China-Germany Friendship Association.\n\nThe company does not give any further information or hints about the location in the announcement. However, in the email with which CALB sent the announcement, it says that it is a signal “that we can build an industrial base in Germany”. In the notice itself, it sounds even more restrained: the signed agreement creates “a solid foundation for the company to further explore its overseas markets and accelerate its global deployment”.\n\nIn September 2021, CALB had announced the expansion of its production capacities to 300 GWh by 2025. Among other projects, a 50 GWh plant is to be built in Hefei. Other sites to reach the 300 GWh installed production capacity are in Changzhou, Luoyang and Xiamen.\n\nCALB’s automotive customers already include GAC Aion, Changan Auto, Geely Automobile and Xpeng. In September, CALB also stated in its announcement that it was in “technology development cooperation talks” with Volkswagen, Daimler and Great Wall Motors in the passenger car sector.\n\nIn addition to battery cell production itself, the company is also focusing on preliminary products: In the city of Meishan in the Chinese province of Sichuan, CALB is planning to build a new factory for cathode materials, which is to offer an annual capacity of 100,000 tonnes.\n\nCALB came to an installed production capacity of 7.5 GWh in the first eleven months of 2021. This means third place among Chinese cell manufacturers, according to data from the China Automotive Power Battery Industry Innovation Alliance (CAPBIIA).\n\nSource: Info via email, gasgoo.com (cathode plant)'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Battery cell production in Europe: In which countries will European manufacturers dominate – and where do international companies want to gain a foothold?', 'published_date': '2022-12-21 08:00:00+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'There are only five European countries, including Germany, where the majority of announced production capacity is not from European companies. While this makes Germany the country with the most announced production capacity from non-European companies (279 GWh), it also remains the country with the largest announced production capacity from European companies (151 GWh).\n\nIn addition to Germany, Sweden (with the extensive announcements of Northvolt) and Italy (ACC, FAAM and Italvolt) each have over 100 GWh announced by European companies. Non-European cell manufacturers can be found besides Germany mainly in Hungary - with announcements of the Chinese companies CATL and EVE, as well as already existing cell productions of the Koreans Samsung SDI and SK On.\n\nNon-Europeans dominate in the short and medium term\n\nThese are the announcements until 2030. At least in the medium term, however, the non-European cell manufacturers will still dominate the local cell production. Only after 2025 will the European cell manufacturers catch up with the non-European manufacturers.\n\nWhether and how these announcements will ultimately be translated into reality depends, of course, on many factors - will there be delays or will some projects fail completely? The fact that Asian companies can build large factories in a short time has already been demonstrated on many occasions - CALB in China, for example, is said to have recently built a 50 GWh factory in just over a year. Many Asian companies are already established cell manufacturers, so their plans could be given a higher probability of realization than those of European start-ups, especially when it comes to quickly ramping up production.\n\nFor example, the British start-up Britishvolt ran into extensive financing difficulties, so that their expansion plans may be questioned. However, the Chinese players also have to adapt to the European framework conditions, which does not rule out delays in the development of production capacities. The Chinese manufacturer Farasis Energy found out that plans can also fail completely when the city of Bitterfeld-Wolfen (Saxony-Anhalt) canceled the construction of a factory, at least for the time being.\n\nThese possible developments underline the importance of observing the build-up of production capacities that is now taking place. For achieving an economic sovereignty in the battery value chain, a successful implementation of the European plans is certainly desirable. In this way, existing market structures can be broken open to give the opportunity for establishing upstream value creation such as component and material production or machine and plant construction in the large emerging battery industry in Europe.'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'CALB sets its sights on European production', 'published_date': '2021-01-25 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'With CALB, short for China Aviation Lithium Battery Technology, another battery manufacturer from China aims for Europe. The state-owned company claims to produce lithium-ion batteries with NCM as well as LFP chemistry – in the order of 100 GWh per year.\n\nIn Europe, the company plans to build its own battery factory, according to the latest information. CALB emerged from a state-owned subcontractor in 2007, has its headquarters in Luoyang and about 1,700 employees worldwide. The company produces cells and modules for electric cars, commercial vehicles, stationary story systems for renewable and mini-grid, and grid-balancing projects.\n\nThe cars in which CALB’s battery technology is installed include the GAC Aion S and the GAC Aion V, several vehicles from Changan, the Geely Emerand EV450, the Geely Geometry C as well as the DFM Fengon E3 and the IA5 from GAC-Toyota. CALB cites three bus manufacturers (Kinglong, Foton, Yutong) and a van from UPS as references.\n\nIn a press release sent to us at electrive by email, CALB wrote that the company is aiming to double its production capacity to 200 GWh “in the near future”. Currently, the state-owned company has an R&D centre and three production sites in Changzhou, Luoyang and Xiamen.\n\nParallel to the increasing capacity in China, CALB wants to expand worldwide. The construction of a European factory is already planned. The company says it has founded a subsidiary to boost this project and organise pre-sales and after-sales services in Europe. As yet, CALB has not revealed further details on the time frame or location for the European factory.\n\nIn addition to the above-mentioned customers in the automotive market, the battery manufacturer has announced further partnerships by email. For example, it is a designated supplier to Honda and Guangqi Honda and plans “bulk deliveries” to GAC-Toyota and a French bus project. Projects are also in planning in Japan and India.\n\nOn a very recent front, CMB International, a wholly-owned subsidiary of China Merchants Bank, published an equity research company update on the GAC Group 3Q20 noting that: “The profitability of GAC NEV has gradually improved given 1) economies of scale brought by sales growth and 2) battery cost control given the introduction of new battery supplier CALB.”\n\nFrom our own reports at electrive, the Chinese battery maker has indeed been making steady inroads into European markets. Back in 2017, we reported that the German supplier ElringKlinger set up a joint venture with Chengfei Integration Technology (CITC). The agreement will see CITC contribute lithium-ion battery cells via its subsidiary China Aviation Lithium Battery (CALB). At the same time, ElringKlinger will add all other module components and also oversee design and production.\n\nWe also reported a new cooperation in a joint venture between Continental and CALB in 2019. Continental’s joint venture with CALB will manufacture complete 48-volt systems with a motor, control unit, and battery in Changzhou. While CALB supplies the battery cells, Continental contributes to the battery management system, including the underlying software. The company’s goal is to start production of technically advanced battery systems by 2021. “The Chinese market will continue to be of pivotal importance for the future development of electric mobility,” confirmed Andreas Wolf, head of Continental Powertrain.\n\nIn April 2020, CALB also featured in a study conducted by a team at the Environment Campus Birkenfeld in Trier – not using metadata, but real-world tests and measurements. The researchers collected as much data as possible themselves – by dismantling a VW Caddy with a 1.6-litre petrol engine, analysing it and rebuilding it with an electric drive.\n\nTo electrify the Caddy, the Trier researchers opted for Lithium Iron Phosphate (LFP) cells from the Chinese manufacturer CALB. They installed a battery with an energy content of 25.9 kWh. They also simulated a battery twice the size with 51.8 kWh and included the original materials of the battery cells (according to the manufacturer CALB) in the analysis. In contrast to the nickel-cobalt-manganese (NCM) technology frequently used in the automotive industry, the LFP cells do not contain cobalt with its related extraction problems, especially in the Congo.\n\nSource: via email, en.calb-tech.com, gg-lb.com (in Chinese)'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'China’s Battery Maker CALB to Build Europe Industry Base in Portugal', 'published_date': '2022-11-04 18:44:42+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'China’s battery maker CALB to build Europe industry base in Portugal.\n\nChinese power battery maker CALB inked a memorandum of understanding (MoU) with the government of Portugal on Nov. 2 to launch its Europe industry base in the country, indicating a milestone in CALB’s global industrial deployment, the company announced via its WeChat account.\n\nThe new project will be set up in an industrial estate close to the Port of Sines, which is Europe’s second largest deep water port capable of round-the-clock operations and the only port in Portugal that allows the world’s largest container ship to be berthed at.\n\nBesides, the Port of Sines also serves as the country’s largest railway freight platform with an annual operation capacity of over 5,000 container trains running to and fro in Europe inland.\n\nCALB said it will strive to build the Portugal-based facility into a zero-carbon factory with world-leading level of intelligence, informatization, and automation.\n\nOn Oct. 6, CALB was officially listed on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange under the stock exchange code “3931.HK”, opening a new chapter for its global strategy.\n\nAccording to data by SNE Research, CALB recorded a global power battery installation volume of 13.7GWh, ranking seventh among the global battery makers and representing a 151.6% year-on-year surge.\n\nREAD the latest Batteries News shaping the battery market\n\nChina’s battery maker CALB to build Europe industry base in Portugal, Shanghai, Gasgoo, November 3, 2022'}...
