Article 1: {'title': 'CATL announces its second European battery plant in Debrecen, Hungary', 'published_date': '2022-08-12 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Contemporary Amperex Technology Co., Limited (CATL) officially announced it will invest 7.34 billion euros to build a 100 GWh battery plant in Debrecen of east Hungary, which is also its second battery plant in Europe following its German plant. Subject to the shareholder meeting approval, construction of the first production facilities will start within this year.\n\nCovering an area of 221 hectares in the Southern Industrial Park of Debrecen, the project will supply both cells and modules to European automakers.\n\nDebrecen is located at the heart of Europe, and with close proximity to some auto plants of its customers such as Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Stellantis and Volkswagen, CATL’s Debrecen plant will enable it to better cope with the battery demands of the European market, improve its global production network development, and help accelerate e-mobility and energy transition in Europe.\n\nAs part of its commitment to reducing the carbon footprint in battery manufacturing, CATL will use electricity from renewable energies, and is considering developing solar power with local partners in the country.\n\nTo build a sustainable and circular battery value chain, CATL is also examining the possibility of joining forces with local partners to establish facilities for battery materials in Europe.\n\n“There is no doubt that our plant in Debrecen will enable us to further sharpen our competitive edge, better respond to our European customers, and accelerate the transition to e-mobility in Europe,” said Dr. Robin Zeng, founder and Chairman of CATL. “The greenfield project in Hungary will be a giant leap in CATL’s global expansion, and also an important step in our efforts to make an outstanding contribution to the green energy drive for humankind.”\n\nPéter Szijjártó, Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, said: “Both the global and the European economies have been faced with tremendous challenges recently. We in Hungary have a clear goal to be a local exception from the continental recession. The best tool to achieve this goal is to attract state-of-the-art investments in the most revolutionary branch of the automotive industry, namely electromobility. We are proud that CATL decided to execute the biggest ever greenfield investment in the history of Hungary. We have recently become one of the leading battery production sites of the world and with this huge investment we further strengthen our position.”\n\nThe new project was well received from CATL’s European customers. Markus Schäfer, Member of the Board of Management of Mercedes-Benz Group AG, CTO responsible for development and procurement, said: “This new state-of-the art European CATL plant in Hungary is another milestone for the scale-up of our EV production together with our key partners. With CATL we have a technology-leader as our partner to provide us - as the first and biggest customer of the new plant’s initial capacity - with top-notch CO2 neutral battery cells for our next generation EVs in Europe, hence following our local-to-local approach in procurement. We’re proud to see our Ambition 2039 supported by CATL’s commitment to CO2 neutral production in Hungary.”'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Are you a robot?', 'published_date': '2022-09-22 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Why did this happen?\n\nPlease make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'Stellantis and China’s CATL in talks over European battery plant', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Cookies on FT Sites\n\nWe use cookies and other data for a number of reasons, such as keeping FT Sites reliable and secure, personalising content and ads, providing social media features and to analyse how our Sites are used.'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'CATL’s battery plant in Germany, its first outside of China, receives production approval for 8 GWh per year', 'published_date': '2022-04-06 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Battery manufacturing behemoth, CATL, shared news that its upcoming plant in Thuringia, Germany has received 2nd partial approval for cell production. This milestone brings the Chinese company one step closer to opening its first battery manufacturing facility outside of China later this year.\n\nContemporary Amperex Technology Co Ltd., better known as CATL, is a global energy technology company and the leading EV battery manufacturer in China. It’s expansive presence in the battery world has helped solidify its reign as the world’s largest by installed battery capacity for a fifth-straight year.\n\nThe company has made recent efforts to integrate more sustainability into the battery manufacturing process, announcing a new $5 billion recycling facility as well as a zero-carbon plant in China. Despite these new facilities to support its goal of global carbon neutrality, CATL has yet to expand outside its home in China… at least for now.\n\nIn 2019, CATL broke ground on a new battery manufacturing plant in Thuringia, Germany which will be known as Contemporary Amperex Technology Thuringia GmbH (CATT). The plant is on schedule to begin battery cell production before year’s end, and should create up to 1,500 jobs in the German state.\n\nHowever, there is still some red tape and some dotted lines to sign before CATL can start making batteries in Germany. But with today’s news, the company is ever-closer.\n\nThuringia’s Minister of Environment, Energy and Nature Conservation, Anja Siegesmund, handing permit to Matthias Zentgraf, CATL’s President for Europe / Source: CATL\n\nCATL approved for battery cell production in Germany\n\nThe battery manufacturer announced this latest announcement in a press release out of Germany today, marking progress of its European expansion despite the woes of the pandemic. Matthias Zentgraf, CATL’s President for Europe, spoke to the 2nd partial approval in Germany:\n\nCATT provides a fundamental impetus for the urgently needed energy transition, and we are glad to be the first company to receive approval to manufacture batteries ‘Made in Germany.’\n\nIn addition to being CATL’s first battery manufacturing plant outside of China, CATT will also be the first to arrive in Germany. German Ministers like Wolfgang Tiefensee hope this initial footprint can lead to further expansions in the state and more battery manufacturers calling Germany home:\n\nFor Thuringia, CATT is one of the most important industrial investments in recent decades. At the same time, the project could be the initial spark for the emergence of a ‘Battery Valley Thuringia,’ as the first batch of CATL’s supplier companies have settled around the area.\n\nThe initial CATT footprint will consist of two buildings – G1, an existing building CATL purchased from another company where battery cells are assembled into modules, and G2 – a new plant built by CATT where the cells will be produced. The latest approval from the press release pertains to a successful permit issued for the cell production of G2.\n\nTo further promote sustainability, the CATT plant will generate a portion of its power from solar panels on its roof. CATL shared that it will invest a total of 1.8 billion euro (~$1.96 billion) in the German plant, with a goal to eventually achieve 14 GWh of annual battery capacity and provide over 2,000 jobs.\n\nCATL’s battery cell production in Germany is expected to begin before the end of 2022.'}...
Article 5: {'title': 'CATL plans recycling sites in Europe and North America', 'published_date': '2023-06-30 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'CATL is planning several recycling sites for its electric car batteries in Europe and North America. As CATL Chief Manufacturing Officer Ni Jun Ni Jun explained, the company is already negotiating with a concrete partner for this in Europe. However, he did not reveal the name yet.\n\n“We are finding global partners. For example, in the recycling business, we are talking to a European partner,” Ni Jun is quoted as saying in Chinese media. “I cannot reveal who, but we are looking at setting up recycling sites, not just one, but (many) sites in Europe.” CATL is also looking for recycling partners in North America.\n\nAt an event in Tianjin, CATL’s Chief Manufacturing Officer stated that the circular economy must be implemented locally – therefore, recycling is not planned centrally in China but on several continents. However, Ni did not indicate the time frame or scope of the battery giant’s recycling plans – or the media did not pick it up.\n\nThe EU Parliament only recently adopted new rules for, among other things, the recycling of all battery types sold in the EU. Germany and Hungary are potential locations for CATL battery recycling plants in Europe. CATL already operates a battery cell factory in Arnstadt in the German state of Thuringia. The company is planning a second European cell factory in Debrecen, Hungary. Of course, a plant at or near the European partner would also be conceivable.\n\nCATL is already active in the battery recycling business in China. According to Ni, CATL’s technology can recover more than 99 per cent of the nickel, cobalt and manganese used in batteries, and the recycling rate for lithium is more than 90 per cent. However, details on the process used do not emerge from the reports.\n\nEarlier this year, the Chinese battery manufacturer announced investments in constructing a large industrial park to recycle battery raw materials and further process new batteries in Foshan. In March, the CATL subsidiary Brunp also agreed to cooperate with Mercedes-Benz in China to recycle EV batteries.\n\nyicaiglobal.com, chinadaily.com.cn'}...
