Article 1: {'title': 'Envision AESC Will Build a New Gigafactory in Spain', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Chinese battery manufacturer Envision AESC announced a new overseas project on June 3. Specifically, the company will build a new gigafactory in Spain. Named VENERGY+, the new gigafactory will be located in in the municipality of Navalmoral de la Mata, which is a part of the Spanish province Cáceres. With a production capacity of 30GWh per year, the new gigafactory is scheduled to enter operation in 2025.\n\nEnvision AESC said the new gigafactory will adopt the net-zero manufacturing system that has been developed in-house. This means that its operation will be carbon neutral, and 100% of its power supply will come from renewable sources. Moreover, the company will be establishing a local battery industry ecosystem that encompasses smart EV charging, battery recycling, and other related technological innovations for the different phases of the battery lifecycle.\n\nAs a part of the Envision Group, Envision AESC touts itself as a global leader in smart battery technologies. The company engages in the research, design, manufacturing, and sales of batteries for mobility and energy storage applications. Envision AESC began in 2018, when the Envision Group sought to acquire Automotive Energy Supply Corporation (AESC) from Japanese carmaker Nissan in 2018. AESC was Nissan’s EV battery business unit. Through this deal, Envision was able to quickly cross over from the field of energy production to the field of battery for applications related to consumer products and mobility solutions. Following the completion of the acquisition in April 2019, Envision formed Envision AESC, whose core technologies originated from Nissan and are thus recognized and trusted by customers in the international market.\n\nAs of now, Envision AESC has serviced more than 600,000 EVs in 44 countries, and its record has not been blemished by a major safety incident. Moving forward, Envision AESC will continue to collaborate with the leading carmakers so as to accelerate to the net-zero transition of the global transportation network.\n\nStrategic partners of Envision AESC now include many major automotive brands such as Nissan, Renault, Honda, and Mercedes-Benz. In order to meet the future demand for EV batteries from these international carmakers, Envision AESC have plans to build gigafactories in France, Japan, the UK, and the US. Again, these plants will incorporate smart green manufacturing solutions so as to ensure net-zero operation.\n\nWhile rapidly rolling out overseas capacity expansion projects, Envision AESC is also expediting the construction of its net-zero manufacturing hubs in the home country. Several capacity expansion projects are currently taking place in Wuxi (Jiangsu), Ordos (Inner Mongolia), and Shiyan (Hubei), etc.\n\nIt is also worth noting that the model of a net-zero industrial park developed by Envision AESC is being adopted in Europe, Australia, the Middle East, and Southeast Asia. The company said it will be working with its partners to build 100 net-zero industrial parks around the world over the next decade. This undertaking could curb as much as 1 billion metric tons of carbon emissions per year.\n\nPresently, Envision AESC has 10 major manufacturing hubs as well as numerous R&D centers and engineering workshops in China and other countries. Some of them have already being built and are in operation, while others are still under construction or in the planning phase. The company aims to have more than 300GWh per year of green production capacity for batteries by 2025.\n\nEnvision AESC’s Major Manufacturing Hubs Location Development Progress Wuxi (China) The company announced the plan to set up an EV battery production base in Wuxi in 2019. The total production capacity of the base is set at 20GWh per year. The first phase entered operation in 2021, and the construction of the second phase commenced on February 7, 2021. The total investment in this project is estimated around CNY 5 billion. Ordos (China) The company is building a battery production base in Ordos. Spanning an area of 1,000 mu, the base will be used to manufacture batteries equipped in EVs and energy storage systems. It will also include facilities that would round out a battery industry chain. The total production capacity of the base is set at 20GWh per year. The first phase (10GWh) entered operation in April 8, 2022. Shiyan (China) The company broke ground on a battery production base in Shiyan in March 2022. With its production capacity set at 40GWh per year, the base will be used manufacture batteries equipped in EVs and energy storage systems. The project will be developed over two phases, with 10GWh being added each phase. Navalmoral de la Mata (Spain) The company plans to set up an EV battery production base in Navalmoral de la Mata. Its production capacity is set at 30GWh per year and will be used to supply products to carmakers worldwide. Douai (France) The company will investing USD 2.9 billion in a battery production base in Douai. The production capacity of the base is expected to reach around 43GWh per year by 2030, and half of it will be used to meet the demand from Renault. Kanagawa (Japan) The company’s first battery plant in Japan is located in Kanagawa Prefecture. Its operating production capacity is currently at 2.6GWh per year. Ibaraki (Japan) The company is currently developing another battery production base in Ibaraki Prefecture. The production capacity of the base is set at 18GWh, which would be sufficient to meet the battery demand of 300,000 EVs per year. It will be used to manufacture the company’s next-generation batteries. The first phase is scheduled to enter operation in 2024. Sunderland (UK) The company has selected Sunderland as the site of its first gigafactory in the UK. The base is scheduled to enter operation in 2025 with an initial production capacity of 25GWh per year. It could ramp up to a maximum of 35GWh per year. It should be noted that these estimated production capacity figures are subject to further revisions. Tennessee (US) The company has set up a battery production base in Tennessee. The base entered operation in 2012 and now has a production capacity of around 3GWh per year. The total production of the base is planned at 20.3GWh per year. Kentucky (US) The company announced in April 2022 that it will invest USD 2 billion in a battery production base in Kentucky. With its production capacity planned at 40GWh per year, the base will be used to supply high-quality EV batteries to carmakers worldwide.\n\nThis article is a translation of a Chinese article written by Marry at TrendForce. It contains information that is either sourced from other news outlets or accessible in the public domain.'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Envision AESC is building another battery plant in Spain', 'published_date': '2022-07-19 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Envision AESC is now also planning a battery cell factory in Spain. This is part of a larger strategic agreement between the Envision Group and the Spanish government. The battery factory is to be built in the Spanish city of Navalmoral de la Mata and will be operational in 2025 with a capacity of up to 50 GWh.\n\nThe overall project includes a gigafactory for batteries, a digital net-zero centre, a green hydrogen plant and an assembly plant for smart wind turbines in different regions in Spain, according to Envision. The battery factory is planned in Navalmoral de la Mata in the Extremadura region of western Spain. Navalmoral de la Mata is located about halfway from the capital Madrid to the Spanish-Portuguese border.\n\nLike Volkswagen’s battery factory in Sagunt near Valencia, the Envision AESC plant is to be subsidised through Spain’s PERTE programme. In return, the battery factory will become part of the “VENERGY+” project, which consists of 12 partners from ten autonomous communities in Spain, according to the announcement. It will localise the supply of vehicle parts and components using advanced technologies and integrate them into the battery ecosystem. The possible funding amount is not mentioned in the announcement.\n\nThe battery factory is expected to create up to 3,000 jobs. Envision AESC does not give any further details in the announcement – it is primarily about the overall project. More precise time schedules, the type of battery cells produced there and also possible customers are therefore not yet known.\n\nOn the other hand, it is certain that the plant for the production of green hydrogen will be built in the central Spanish region of Castilla-La Mancha – here, too, there are no details yet on the timetable or the exact scope of the plant. Plants for the assembly of smart wind turbines are also to be built in Castilla and the Leon region in the north-west of the country.\n\n“We are fully committed to supporting Spain’s national agenda on net zero transition,” says Envision CEO Lei Zhang. “The creation of new industrial opportunities such as the Net Zero Industrial Park will unlock the vast potential of renewable energy in Spain and serve as a gateway to building a pan-European greentech industrial ecosystem.”\n\nThe battery factory in Spain joins Envision AESC’s growing list of battery projects: in China, the company is building a battery plant with an annual capacity of 20 GWh. A joint battery factory with Nissan in Japan was announced in August 2021. Plans for factories in Sunderland, UK and Douai, France (including for Renault and Nissan plants there) were last adjusted in 2021. Finally, this April, the construction of a US battery factory in Kentucky was announced.\n\nprnewswire.com'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'UK: Envision AESC lays foundation for Sunderland gigafactory', 'published_date': '2022-12-12 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Envision AESC has begun the building works for its battery factory near the Nissan plant in Sunderland, UK. It will be the second UK facility for the EV battery specialist from Japan. Envision AESC also announced new details regarding capacities after reports had varied.\n\nOnce the new plant comes on stream in 2025, it will have an annual capacity of 12 GWh, writes Envision in today’s announcement. This is more than the 9 GWh the company had set when publishing the plans for Sunderland in July 2021. A few months later, in October, Envision CEO Zhang Lei named an initial capacity of 11 GWh, but already for 2024. But going back to the latest news, expansion, so far, has been forecasted as 25 GWh by 2030 and ultimately up to 35 GWh.\n\nThe type of cell AESC will be making for Nissan here has remained unchanged, with Envision saying it would produce its latest generation batteries with 30% more energy density. They further promise to deliver enough batteries to power 100,000 electric vehicles annually. They did not provide more details, and it remains unclear whether the facility will manufacture cells or also house the assembly of entire battery modules.\n\nHowever, Nissan’s presence in Sunderland and cooperation with AESC have been longstanding. Nissan Europe Vice President of Engineering Andy Marsh explained how the first Sunderland battery plant helped launch the 100% electric Nissan LEAF and expects the second factory to become “a fundamental part of our EV36Zero project, which brings together electric vehicle production, battery manufacturing and renewables as we drive towards carbon neutrality”.\n\nThe EV36Zero initiative is worth £1 billion to Nissan and Envision AESC with the cooperation of the Sunderland Council. As battery partner Envision pledged to invest £450 million (about €525 mn) in the UK’s “first Gigafactory”. Nissan, in turn, promised up to £423 mn to produce another electric model in Sunderland in form of an all-electric crossover model based on the CMF EV platform from the Renault-Nissan-Mitsubishi alliance. Nissan plans to create a production capacity of 100,000 vehicles per year in Sunderland.\n\nAccording to the Japanese partners, the announced projects will create 6,200 jobs at Nissan and its UK suppliers, including more than 900 new Nissan jobs and 750 new Envision AESC jobs at its battery plant. Envision AESC also says it will increase the above initial investment of £450 mn in the manufacturing facility to £1.8 billion “in a later phase”, the equivalent of around €2.1 bn, and today spoke of employing up to 4,500 staff.\n\nThe company is already known to operate a 1.9 GWh plant on site, built in 2012 under Nissan. At the time, AESC was still working as a battery subsidiary of the Japanese carmaker before Nissan sold AESC to Envision Group in 2018. Within the last nine years, “enough cells, modules and packs for over 180,000 electric vehicles in 44 countries” have been produced at the plant, most notably for installation in the Nissan Leaf and e-NV200.\n\nGlobally, the second facility is part of Envision’s plan to scale up EV manufacturing capabilities in strategic regions. The plant follows last year’s announcements to build gigafactories in Douai, France, the US state of Kentucky, Ibaraki Japan, and Extremadura in Spain. This brings Envision AESC’s total capacity to more than 150GWh worldwide and advances its commitment to reach 300GWh by 2026.\n\nnortheastautomotivealliance.com'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'Envision AESC to Build a Power Battery Factory in Spain with a Planned Capacity of 30GWh', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': "SHANGHAI, Jun 7 (SMM) - Envision AESC will invest in the construction of a large power battery factory in the Navalmoral de la Mata, Spain, with a planned production capacity of 30GWh, which is scheduled to be completed and put into operation in 2025.\n\nSpain is the second largest automobile producer in Europe. Influenced by the electric transformation of automobiles and the strategy of carbon neutrality, Spain is actively promoting the development of the power battery and electric vehicle industry to become a new European electric vehicle industry centre.\n\nAccording to Envision AESC, the new factory in Spain will provide higher quality, longer cruising range, more cost competitive, cleaner and low-carbon power battery products for the global leading car companies. However, Envision AESC did not disclose which international car company it cooperated with. It is worth noting that Envision AESC has reached long-term strategic cooperation with many international car companies such as Renault, Nissan, Daimler and Honda.\n\nAs the most internationalised Chinese battery company, Envision AESC has successively laid out a number of large-scale power battery production/R&D bases in China, Japan, Britain, France and the US. The new factory landing in Spain is another important layout for its global development.\n\nIt is reported that the super factory will realise 100% renewable energy supply and carbon neutral operation by relying on the zero-carbon system solution of Envision AESC. At the same time, Envision AESC will open up the construction of a local battery ecosystem in Spain, and promote the innovation and development of intelligent charging facilities, battery recycling and other life cycle technologies. This project is also a key project supported by the Spanish government's “Strategic Projects for Economic Recovery and Transformation (PERTE-VEC)”.\n\nWith the planning and construction of this new factory, Envision AESC has planned and laid out 11 battery production bases in China, Japan, the US, Britain, France and Spain. In 2026, its total production capacity of zero-carbon batteries will exceed 300GWh. It has laid out three production bases in China:\n\nWuxi, Erdos, and Shiyan. The planned production capacity of the Wuxi base is 20GWh, the first phase project 5GWh has been completed and put into operation in 2021, and the second phase project started in February this year with a planned production capacity of 15GWh, which will be completed and put into operation in 2023. Ordos battery manufacturing base started construction in 2021, with a total planned production capacity of 20GWh, of which the first phase project was completed and put into operation in April 2022. The project in Hubei started in February this year. It is reported that a production line of the high power battery production project is planned to be put into production before the end of this year.\n\nIt has two battery production bases in Japan. The Kanagawa base is constructed with a production capacity of 2.6GWh. In August 2021, its second battery factory of landed in Ibarakiken, Japan, with a planned capacity of 18GWh.\n\nIn the UK, Envision AESC already has built a battery factory with an annual production capacity of 1.9GWh in Sunderland. In July 2021, the company planned to build a power battery super factory in the UK, with a planned capacity of 25GWh, and it has a capacity expansion potential of 35GWh.\n\nIn France, in June 2021, Envision AESC announced the construction of a super battery factory in Duet, with a planned production capacity of 24GWh, and the expansion potential of 40GWh.\n\nIn the US, Envision AESC’s first factory is located in Tennessee and has been put into operation. In April 2022, Envision AESC announced the construction of a new power battery super factory in Kentucky, with a planned production capacity of 30GWh and the expansion potential of 40GWh.\n\nEnvision AESC gets long-term orders from many international car companies, which supports it to make the large-scale layout of battery factories in many places around the world. Since last year, Envision AESC has continued to reach strategic cooperation with a number of leading car companies to devote to the global transportation zero-carbon transformation. In June 2021, Envision AESC reached strategic cooperation with Renault; In July of the same year, it deepened the strategic cooperation with Nissan; In March 2022, it reached strategic cooperation with Mercedes-Benz."}...
