Article 1: {'title': 'Mass-produced European solar panels on the horizon', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Solar cells and panels, or modules, are central to Europe’s commitment to using renewable energy to meet up to a third of its energy needs by 2030. But while the energy will be home produced, almost none of the necessary hardware is made in Europe.\n\nMost mass-produced cells and modules are from China, Taiwan and Malaysia, according to an EU report. The most efficient crystalline silicon solar-cell technology concepts on the market – interdigitated back-contacted (IBC) type solar cells – are produced by a small number of American and Asian firms.\n\nEurope is now closer to having its own version of this technology. The EU-funded NEXTBASE project has developed highly efficient IBC solar cells in the silicon heterojunction configuration (IBC-SHJ).\n\nThe NEXTBASE cells can convert 25.4 % of the solar energy they capture into power.\n\n‘This is a European record for an industrially feasible version of IBC-SHJ technology,’ says project coordinator Kaining Ding of the Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH research organisation in Germany.\n\n‘The current laboratory world record for a silicon solar cell is 26.7 %, which was also based on the IBC-SHJ concept but was very expensive to make. Our approach is close to the optimum level.’\n\nNEXTBASE researchers have also developed a prototype 4-cell x 4-cell solar module that has achieved 23.2 % efficiency, which is among the highest silicon module efficiencies ever reported. Encouraged by these results, the project team has developed a cost-effective manufacturing method that could produce such modules for under EUR 0.275/watt, enabling electricity generation at costs similar to generation with standard Asian-made technologies.\n\n‘It makes Europe competitive in solar cell manufacturing,’ says Ding.\n\nEnergy-tech innovations\n\nDing adds that the cells can make Europe’s energy more sustainable and secure. ‘The higher efficiency fosters the transition to renewables as it produces more energy from smaller areas than similar less-efficient cells,’ he explains, adding: ‘From an environmental and societal view, it is better to produce locally.’\n\nThe IBC-SHJ technology is key to the impressive energy conversion rate. Metallic contacts in standard mass-produced solar technology are on the front and back, wasting the solar energy that is blocked by the metal on the front. In contrast, back-contacted cells have all the connections at the back, so that they can capture solar energy across their entire front surface, in addition to being aesthetically pleasing.\n\nExisting IBC-type modules sell only to a premium market and are expensive to make, according to Ding. The 14 industry and research partners in the NEXTBASE consortium changed designs and processes for the silicon wafers, the cells and the modules in this technology to make them both more efficient and more cost-effective.\n\nDing explains that IBC-SHJ cells have complicated structures. ‘There was no cost-competitive industrial way to produce them.’\n\nNEXTBASE member Meyer Burger Research AG developed an automated process for producing the cells cheaply. ‘This process was very successful and simple,’ says Ding.\n\nPilot preparations\n\nDing believes that NEXTBASE can increase manufacturing and consumer interest in European photovoltaic technology and make IBC-SHJ modules more attractive to consumers. ‘The results are leading to commercialisation of high-efficiency PV modules based on next-generation c-Si solar cells. Without EU funding, the partners would not have worked together that closely,’ says Ding. ‘Everyone has an active interest in doing the work, even beyond the project.’\n\nThe next step will be to demonstrate that the NEXTBASE cell can work in larger modules and to industrialise production. The partners are planning a project for a pilot line, led by Meyer Burger Research AG, which now has a patent on the cell.\n\nHowever, scientific information about the project’s innovations can be accessed on the NEXTBASE website, including its cost and life-cycle impact analysis, allowing other projects and businesses to develop additional next-generation solar technology in Europe.'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'The weekend read: EU solar manufacturing – The time is now', 'published_date': '2022-03-12 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'From pv magazine 03/2022\n\nPV veterans will remember with a heavy heart the relatively recent decimation of the continent’s manufacturing landscape, after Asian competitors outpriced and out supplied their European peers at eyewatering speed. However, as Europe remains one of the largest solar markets globally, deployment levels continue to ramp up, and sustainability issues come to the fore, calls for meaningful domestic manufacturing capacity to be re-erected have become increasingly loud over the past few years, and it appears that in 2022 they may begin to be answered.\n\nThe SolarPower Europe (SPE) trade group is one of many organizations determined to re-establish a homegrown solar manufacturing landscape. In a recent op-ed on pv-magazine.com, CEO Walburga Hemetsberger stated that the association envisions 20GW of PV production in Europe by 2025, covering the entire value chain, from polysilicon to modules. “This is the objective we set for the European Solar Initiative, an industrial alliance we launched in February this year [2021], which facilitates the redevelopment of industrial projects in Europe,” she wrote. As she pointed out, however, manufacturers must establish gigawatt-scale fabs to be cost competitive.\n\nState of play\n\nIn July 2021, German research body the Fraunhofer Institute of Solar Energy Systems (ISE) released its “Photovoltaics Report,” which details the current state of European crystalline silicon PV manufacturing, as of the end of 2020. Looking at the map, while solar-grade polysilicon production capacity is relatively well established, the rest of the supply chain has a way to go if it is to achieve a meaningful share.\n\nIndeed, according to the chart, Europe had 22.1GW of polysilicon production capacity in operation, but just 1.25GW of solar wafer production capacity, 650MW of solar cell capacity, and 6.75GW of solar module production capacity.\n\nLast April, the European Solar Manufacturing Council (ESMC), an association of European manufacturers and research institutes, said that at least 75% of PV demand in Europe should be covered by domestic production, while two-thirds of PV products produced in Europe should be exported.\n\nThis would mean building up 60GW of manufacturing capacity on the continent by 2026 – three times what SPE is calling for. The current trade deficit of €10.5 billion ($11.8 billion) in solar cells and modules could be converted into around €50 billion of PV production on the continent, said the council, which would create around 178,000 new jobs in Europe.\n\nDecarbonize Europe - Green light to new avenues for solar and storage pv magazine virtual Roundtables Europe 2022 will address European decarbonization for the acceleration of the continent’s energy transition. Solar and energy storage will remain central to the discussion, but we will also look across sectors to explore how they can be effectively electrified or supplied with clean energy. Join the event on June 28 & 29 for free.\n\nOf the €723.8 billion the European Union wants to provide through its post-pandemic reconstruction program – the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) – the ESMC says that €20 billion should be used to shore up the European PV industry. In a report issued in late December, it wrote that “to benefit from the support of the RRF, EU member states must submit recovery and resilience plans (RRPs), with the reforms and investments to be implemented by the end of 2026 … In ESMCs RRP evaluation effort, a total of €477 million have been identified as direct support for PV manufacturing. They consist of both loans and grants to establish or strengthen the PV value chain in Italy, Romania, and Croatia.”\n\nItaly is said to hold the largest direct RRP support for solar PV manufacturing, with €400 million dedicated to help reach the national target of 2GW annual manufacturing capacity by December 2025, said ESMC, while in Romania, €50 million has been allocated to develop 200MW of PV production capacity, and in Croatia, €26.5 million has been dedicated to the development of environmentally friendly production processes, including PV manufacturing.\n\nRamping up\n\nSome significant steps were made in 2021 to ramp volumes up, predominantly in Germany, with Switzerland-based Meyer Burger Technology AG opening a 400MW module and a 400MW cell factory at two separate locations in Germany last March for its heterojunction products. Following financing in July 2021 to accelerate its production capacities, this year is expected to be a “ramp-up year” with plans to increase its annual European cell production to 1.4GW and module production to 1GW by the end of 2022.\n\nThe UK’s Oxford PV also completed the build-out of its 100MW Brandenburg fab for its crystalline silicon heterojunction/perovskite tandem PV cells last July. It too expects the line to start full production in 2022 and CEO Frank P. Averdung told pv magazine at the time that it is in the “final stages” of a funding round that will allow the company to expand beyond the initial 100MW line up to gigawatt scale. “We hope we will be able to communicate the closure of the funding very soon,” he said.\n\nMeanwhile, in a recently announced partnership, Sonnenstromfabrik (CS Wismar GmbH) is expanding its 200MW module manufacturing operations in Wismar with the addition of a new 300MW line. The German company will use REC Group’s award-winning and patented half-cut cell and twin module and junction box design for the manufacture of two new PERC module products utlizing large format wafers.\n\nAnd on the wafer front, another German company, Fraunhofer ISE spinoff NexWafe GmbH – which manufactures high-efficiency monocrystalline silicon kerfless wafers – is gearing up to start commercial production this year, following an injection of €32 million in 2021, €25 million of which came from Indian conglomerate Reliance Industries Limited. In addition to manufacturing in Germany, Reliance will be granted access to NexWafe’s patented technology to utilize in its planned gigawatt manufacturing facility in India.\n\nWhile there are many plans taking place in Germany, Italy is also a hot spot for PV manufacturing, as the EMSC mentioned. Last November, renewable energy company and PV module manufacturer Enel Green Power (EGP), a unit of Italian power utility Enel, secured an undisclosed sum from the European Union to scale up its 200MW heterojunction cell and module factory in Catania to 3GW.\n\nSpeaking to pv magazine this January, new EGP CEO Salvatore Bernabei said the company is “planning to start the works for the enlargement of the factory soon. We will add a new building close to the existing one.” The factory is expected to begin manufacturing activities by the end of 2023 and to reach full capacity by mid-2024.\n\nA month later, Enel announced that Italian engineering company Comal is planning a 1GW solar tracker manufacturing fab in the power company’s Montalto di Castro power plant in Italy. The new factory – “Tracker Sun Hunter” – will see Comal manufacture trackers across an area of over 30,000 square meters inside Enel’s plant which is no longer used for energy generation.\n\nPopular content\n\nIn France, REC Group said in November 2020 that it is planning to build a 4GW PV module factory in the northwestern region of Moselle. Work was expected to commence this year; however, delays have seen this pushed back. In a statement released in June 2021, the company said, “REC Solar France teams and partners remain mobilized and are working hand in hand to bring the project to a successful conclusion as soon as possible.”\n\nAccording to the initial announcement, everything will be done on-site including the production of cells, assembly of modules, quality control, receipt of raw materials and shipment of finished products.\n\nSustainable path\n\nAs mentioned in the February edition of pv magazine (pp.74-77), Europe is also on a mission to establish itself as a key manufacturing base for batteries to support both the growth of electric vehicles and stationary storage projects. Over the past six years, ambitious plans have been announced to achieve this goal, with the latest predictions suggesting that 35 gigafactories will be operational by 2035.\n\nOne of the key priorities is to build a sustainable manufacturing industry. This is also vital for the solar value chain and something that is being taken seriously. As pv magazine said in the third quarter of 2020, as part of the UP Initiative’s Circular Manufacturing quarterly theme, the creation of a circular PV economy is an EU priority under its proposed Green Deal.\n\nFor example, the Circusol project, which stands for Circular Business Models, is an Innovation Action project funded by the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 program. It seeks not only to unearth new business opportunities, like solar as a service, but also to look at the redesign and recyclability of solar products, among other issues. A part of this consortium has seen Lithuanian module maker SoliTek investigate barriers and opportunities related to solar module circularity, to propose alternative design options. pv magazine will publish the results of this investigation during the second quarter.\n\nStating that now is the time to reinvest in the European manufacturing industry and take advantage of the TW-scale opportunities ahead, Germany’s Fraunhofer ISE established the Green Manufacturing Consortium in 2019. It is a German publicly funded project, comprising 20 industrial partners, four institutes and two industry associations, including First Solar, Meyer Burger, Total, Wacker, VDMA, Oxford PV, and Von Ardenne.\n\nThe objective is to develop an “economic-ecological evaluation methodology for a sustainable future factory for the production of innovative PV modules,” Jochen Rentsch, said head of the department production technology division photovoltaics at Fraunhofer ISE, in 2020.\n\nThe overarching goal of the project is to develop an economic-ecological evaluation methodology for a sustainable future factory – 10GW in size and easily scalable beyond that – to produce innovative PV modules. “Via a comprehensive energy and material flow model of scaled and vertically integrated PV fabs we will simulate changes in production capacity, factory layout, supply systems, production facilities and processes as well as recycling of materials through recycling processes and other value-added stages,” explained Rentsch.\n\nAt the time, Fraunhofer ISE Director Andreas Bett said reestablishing a European PV manufacturing market represents a “big opportunity” to ensure energy security by reducing dependency on imports, lowering costs, and addressing sustainability. “Why transport large and heavy PV modules the long distance from Asia and cause CO2 emissions and added cost? For example, module costs of €0.20/W can be soon realized, and transport costs from China to Europe can be up to €0.025/W,” he wrote.\n\nSustainability is also a key priority for both REC Group and Sonnenstromfabrik. Indeed, talking about the recently announced partnership, managing director of the latter, Bernhard Weilharter, said that producing low-carbon products is a central aim for the company. The journey started in 2016 when Sonnenstromfabrik began supplying the French market with certified low carbon modules. It now completes life cycle assessments for all its products, and in some markets it also secures an Eco Passport to back its environmental credentials.\n\nMeanwhile, REC Group not only produces its wafers in Norway using hydro energy, but it also focuses on upcycling kerf via a “unique new kerf processing technology” – during the standard wafer slicing process, around 30% of the silicon remains as waste, or kerf – to reuse it in cells and modules, said Agnieszka Schulze head of global PR at REC Solar EMEA GmbH. It further produces “polysilicon with the lowest carbon footprint,” she added.\n\nDecarbonization plans\n\nAfter a period of stagnation, the European PV industry is again stepping onto the world manufacturing stage. Thus, pv magazine will spend the second quarter looking at the companies acting to establish PV fabs, particularly those which are doing so in a sustainable manner.\n\nIn addition to revisiting the circular manufacturing projects highlighted in the third quarter of 2020, we will be looking at the challenges European manufacturers face, the advantages of producing Made in Europe solar products, and what needs to be done to convince political leaders and other decision-makers to jump on board.\n\npv magazine sees this transition as being crucial if Europe is to achieve its decarbonization plans in a sustainable way. This will therefore be a topic that will be addressed via the UP Initiative, but also at its virtual Roundtables Europe event on June 28 and 29. For more information, contact up@pv-magazine.com.'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'EU Solar Manufacturing Map', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'This is a dynamic map that allows you to use the filter system and select any segment of the value chain, in any country. If you would like more information about this map, or if you want your company to be included, please contact Christophe Lits at c.lits@solarpowereurope.org .'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'Building a competitive solar-PV supply chain in Europe', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Europe has committed to being a climate-neutral society by 2050. This is an ambitious target, which has been complicated by the energy crisis and the Ukraine conflict, as well as efforts to replace the import of Russian gas.\n\nShare About the authors This article is a collaborative effort by Alberto Bettoli, Tomas NauclÃ©r, Thomas Nyheim, Andreas Schlosser, and Christian Staudt representing views from McKinseyâ\x80\x99s Electric Power and Natural Gas Practice.\n\nEurope is planning a major ramp-up of solar-photovoltaic (PV)-based electricity to address its energy challenges, which include meeting its climate ambitions, managing a large part of its electrification, decarbonizing the electricity grid, and becoming less reliant on others. As part of its â\x80\x9cEU solar energy strategy,â\x80\x9d the region has announced a 750 GWDC target of installed solar-PV capacity by 2030â\x80\x94up from 224 GW of installed capacity in 2022 (Exhibit 1). This represents a considerable step up in annual installations, going from some 26 GW in 2021 to around 70 GW a year in the second half of this decade. Germany alone aims to install 215 GW by 2030, adding 160 GW of new capacity on top of the current 58 GW, almost scaling the market by a factor of four.\n\n1\n\nWith these ambitions in place, Europe would maintain its position as one of the major solar-PV markets in the world, alongside China, India, and the United States.\n\nEuropeâ\x80\x99s supply challenge: Itâ\x80\x99s all imported\n\nThis ambition faces a potential supply resilience risk: Europe currently relies almost entirely on imports from one country for the solar PV panels it needs. China dominates the solar-PV supply chain with almost 95 percent of the worldâ\x80\x99s wafer production (Exhibit 2). It is home to the top five companies across each step of the value chain, except Germanyâ\x80\x99s Wacker Chemie EG in PV grade polysilicon.\n\n2\n\nChinaâ\x80\x99s solar-PV industryâ\x80\x99s scale-up has been rapidâ\x80\x94from zero to 300 GW capacity in some 15 years. While European companies initially led the industry, Chinese solar-PV companies, in many regards, today dominate both manufacturing at scale and deploying new technologies, supporting major solar-PV ecosystems built around industry hubs. Specialized companies deliver everything from ingot pullers to diamond wire saws and solar PV glass to aluminum frames. In this way, the Chinese solar-PV industry has made the technology the cheapest renewable energy source in many markets. Prior to recent price increases (due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and supply-chain bottlenecks), the price of solar PV only went one wayâ\x80\x94down. The levelized cost of energy (LCOE), a measure for the lifetime cost of solar PV including both capital and operating expenditure, has fallen some 80 percent since 2010.\n\nWhile European markets have enjoyed the benefits of falling solar-PV costs, the geopolitical context is evolving. The Ukraine conflict has exposed the risk of relying on imports for critical energy, and Europe is becoming increasingly sensitive to the potential supply-chain risks for solar-PV products. Labor concerns in the production of polysilicon have created additional worries for European customers, particularly with regard to ESG and human rightsâ\x80\x99 issues.\n\nIn response to these rising challenges, the EU has begun its solar-PV strategy to reestablish a viable PV manufacturing industry, with the EUâ\x80\x99s Energy Commissioner stating that the EU will do â\x80\x9cwhatever it takesâ\x80\x9d to succeed. In light of this, the Commission formally launched the Solar Photovoltaic Industry Alliance in December 2022 to develop a European solar-PV ecosystem that will secure and diversify supplies of solar PV products. The EU has already defined a target of 30 GW a year of PV manufacturing across the entire supply chain by 2025.\n\nBut, in reality, what will this takeâ\x80\x94and can European companies really be competitive with the industry leaders?\n\nEuropean companies are starting to respond\n\nAlthough it is currently small, the European solar PV industry does not have to start entirely from scratch (Exhibit 3). Europe has some 6 to 8 GW of module capacity, and approximately 1 GW of cell and 2 GW of wafer capacityâ\x80\x94however, this is still less than 1 percent of global capacity. Wacker in Germany is the only European top-five global company with approximately 20 GW of polysilicon production in Europe.\n\n3\n\nMany European companies have started ramping up or have expansion plans in motion. In Turkey, Kalyon PV has boosted its 1.2 GW integrated ingot-to-module facility. In Sicily, Enelâ\x80\x99s 3Sun is building a 3 GW facility that will produce heterojunction (HJT) cell technology modules and, over time, tandem cells (traditional polysilicon-based PV cells coupled with so-called perovskite solar-PV cells), with a roadmap to more than 30 percent cell efficiency. Similarly, Meyer Burger in Switzerland, the former equipment manufacturer, is aiming for 4.2 GW by 2025 (also using HJT cell technology), and Norwegian ingot and wafer producers, NorSun and Norwegian Crystals, plan around 4 GW new capacity. New technology companies like Nexwafe and Oxford PV also aim to have GW-sized capacities by 2024 to 2025.\n\nSo far there are few current Chinese solar PV companies that have decided to establish manufacturing in Europeâ\x80\x94Chinese leading companies would likely consider doing so if it supported their market positions. These companies would bring both capabilities and already-scaled production systems. However, given the strong platforms in China, they may enter with a minimal approach, limiting European production to modules, or cells and modules, and source as much as possible from their existing Chinese-supplier networks. Further, given their limited experience in building and operating factories in Europe, they may look for European partners and also face many of the same scaling and ramp-up challenges as European companies do.\n\nA path to competitiveness\n\nOur analysis suggests that the costs of solar-PV manufacturing in Europe at scale for the full value chain will be at a 20 to 25 percent disadvantage against current lowest cost levelsâ\x80\x94if scale and excellence effects have been achieved. When assuming that large scale is achieved, European companies will still be structurally disadvantaged by higher labor, material, utilities, and capital costs. This is based on the cost of power before the price hikes that European industrial players have experienced over the past yearâ\x80\x94this means that the current power prices in Europe further lower their cost competitiveness, especially in the energy-intensive upstream parts of the value chain.\n\nHowever, there are several factors that point to a potential path to competitiveness for leading European solar-PV companies (Exhibit 4).\n\n4\n\nScale and excellence: European companies (or companies that are setting up manufacturing capacity in Europe) will only succeed if they are able to grow fast to reach large scale, while at the same time being highly stringent in capital and operational excellence. While pinpointing exact scale thresholds is difficult, on plant level we observe that leading players typically have 3 to 5 GW at cell and module level, and around 10 GW for ingot and wafer, and polysilicon. The scale levels have consistently increased over time as the industry has matured. Further, the leading players have production systems consisting of close to 100 GW capacity on company level, and operate more than ten plants across their production systems. In short, without large scale, European players will have a hard time to succeed in being competitive. Our analysis show that around half the initial cost gap (about 4 c/W) to Chinese companies will depend on reaching sufficient scale.\n\nA key factor in scaling the industry is also to build a viable ecosystem of suppliers and equipment providers. Without sufficient scale, the industry will not spur the necessary investments and competition among sub-suppliers and technology partners.\n\nSimilarly, leading players will need to have laser-sharp focus to ensure cost out and implement continual improvements to build viable long-term competitiveness. This includes higher levels of automation and building a competitive supplier network that shares the same commitment to aggressive scaling and cost competitiveness.\n\nDeployment of leading technology: European players could enhance their competitiveness by being early adopters of new technologies. Most importantly, higher cell efficiencies and more power per module could drive down the cost per watt correspondingly. And, as many cost drivers are linked to units produced, higher efficient cells will lower the structural cost disadvantages that European companies faceâ\x80\x94Enel and Meyer Burger are already leading the way to implement HJT and also develop tandem cell technologies. In addition, European companies have the opportunity to be leaders in implementing new production processes and product technologies and, in this way, will likely build long-term competitiveness. However, as the ramp-up is needed on relatively short notice, it is unlikely that next generation technologies alone will close the gap.\n\nConsumersâ\x80\x99 willingness to pay: European customers will, to some degree, likely be prepared to pay a premium for European-made panels. From interviews conducted over the last six months and from comparing prices, customers show a willingness to pay 10 to 20 percent premiums for European-made products with full traceability. Statements from industry leaders include, â\x80\x9cThere is a premium for better ESG. We have seen players pay 2 to 3 c/Wp.â\x80\x9d And, â\x80\x9cIf European players can offer PV modules with good warranties, a lower carbon footprint, and delivery security, I think that utilities would pay about a $2 c/Wp premium.â\x80\x9d\n\nIn future, this trend is likely only to strengthen. As one expert put it, â\x80\x9cThe importance of ESG is picking up, especially when banks are involved. There is a cost difference in complete ESG transparency of 1.3 to 1.5 c/Wp.â\x80\x9d Successful European companies will need to build quality products with strong brand positions for which customers are willing to pay premium prices. These companies could develop compelling value propositions that include sustainability and low-carbon footprint, full value-chain traceability, as well as excellent product quality, output performance, and bankability. Further, as the costs of solar PV have come down as far as they have, the marginal extra cost of paying a premium will, for many customers, be secondary to other purchasing factors. However, energy-intensive players, especially large ones, will still potentially be sensitive to these smaller differences, which emphasizes the need to close the structural gap as much as possible.\n\nThe cost of carbon: European companies can achieve a lower embedded carbon footprint than the current supply chainâ\x80\x94around 40 percent lower in the EU compared to modules produced in China. Europe is in the process of implementing carbon border mechanisms to avoid carbon leakage, as well as considering carbon contracts for difference. Assuming a carbon price range of $60-90 per ton and 330kg CO 2 equivalent per kilowatt peak lower emissions for an EU made panel, the impact would be 2.0 to 3.0 c/W, with potential higher range impact in markets with CO 2 -linked incentives like France.\n\nThese levers point to a potential pathway toward competitiveness for European businesses with the right approach and mindset. Yet, while the direction of the pathway is clear, there are multiple challenges to overcome. Rebuilding an end-to-end European supply chain including material suppliers and equipment providers will not be easy (Exhibit 5). Module manufacturers will likely be hard pressed to find capable and cost-competitive regional suppliers of glass, backsheets, junction boxes, and framesâ\x80\x94at least in the near term. Similarly, finding European manufacturing equipment suppliers and technology partners is possible but will require additional effort to scale and higher initial costs as the industry is currently sub-scale. For ingot and wafer, the dependency on non-European supply is even more pronounced, and key components such as ingot pullers and suppliers of crucibles, hot zones, and diamond wire saws are today entirely sourced from Asia. Any fast scaling of a European industry, by necessity, requires close collaboration with global suppliers.\n\n5\n\nA level playing field in an uneven world\n\nAs European companies look to invest in rebuilding solar-PV manufacturing, the market design and framework within which it can operate is vital. Indeed, the market design is evolving fast in other regions. There are significant structural differences between the key solar-PV regionsâ\x80\x94China, Europe, India, and the United States. In particular, the United States recently passed the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) in August 2022, which includes tax incentives for solar-panel manufacturers.\n\nThis United States support scheme is focused on encouraging investment in new solar-PV manufacturing capacity. On a fully localized basis (the IRA plus other local incentive programs), the direct production support is around 12 to 20 c/W until 2030, after which it reduces by 25 percent per yearâ\x80\x94in other words, federal government covers a large share of the cost, and will hypothetically make the US the cheapest cost region for solar PV in the world. In addition, the United States already puts import tariffs on cells and modules made in China, and partially extended these in December 2022 to manufacturing hubs in Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam to select suppliers. The United States is also considering extending these tariffs to put special duties on the import of Chinese wafersâ\x80\x94alongside the existing rules that ban the import of Chinese forced-labor products, which are already creating high barriers for Chinese solar-PV companies to sell in the United States.\n\nThe overall effect of these measures has been immediate, with more than 30 GW of new capacity revealed across more than ten new announcements in the short time since the IRA was passed.\n\nIn Europe, the EU Innovation Fund and regional programs can provide grants and recently reopened for bids to allocate â\x82¬25 billion toward 2030 to low-carbon projects. Traditionally the fund focuses on innovative projects at pre-commercial scale, which are not entirely fit for the purpose of stimulating scaling of a relatively mature solar-PV industry. However, flagship projects, like Enelâ\x80\x99s 3Sun, have so far received â\x82¬118 million in EU grants (in addition to national grants), covering some 20 percent of the overall capital cost. Still, the impact of such upfront grants is relatively modest, especially when compared to the IRA, since depreciation costs for cell and module plants are less than 10 percent of unit costs (Exhibit 6).\n\n6\n\nCreating a level playing field is challenging under these shifting circumstances. The EU is developing measures such as a CO 2 tax and eco-labeling that are expected to be favorable for European-based companies. To trigger broad and large-scale investments, however, further targeted market design measures may be required to entice investments. Indeed, there are already indications of solar-PV companies refocusing investments from Europe to other regionsâ\x80\x94REC Solar recently announced it is canceling its plans for a 4 GW French plant, despite being selected in July to receive an EU grant.\n\nPotential unlocks\n\nFor European-based companies to succeed in building feasible, long-term competitive positions in the global solar-PV supply chain and enable a viable European industry, the success formula will likely combine highly ambitious and cost-competitive players, supported by the right market design especially in the critical scale-up phase. With this in mind, we have identified six potential unlocks:\n\nLeading ambitious industrial frontrunners who are willing to move first and deploy risk capital at pace, using the best available technology across the value chain and with long-term global ambitions to succeed. A laser-sharp focus on cost-out performance through accelerated scale-up and world-leading ambitions for capital and operational excellence, combined with a compelling customer value proposition (especially cost, quality, and sustainability). A sophisticated industrial approach to continually implement new technologies to enable and build competitive leadership. This will involve close collaboration with technology companies, equipment providers, and technical research institutes. An orchestration and coordination across the value chain to de-risk investment cases and scale in lock-step. Leading downstream customers need to be prepared to de-risk upstream investments (and unlock financing) by committing demand at the right price signal to spur investments across the value chainâ\x80\x94with a high degree of transparency on plans and the need to scale in tandem. Systematic efforts by companies to build a competitive ecosystem of sub-suppliers and equipment partners in coordination with others to support new investments. Such an ecosystem of suppliers should be able to extract cost synergies and drive down input costs to support a viable industry. National- and EU-level regulators that create a market design framework that encourages and de-risks early investments in Europe, especially until minimum scale thresholds are achieved, and with a scale and scope that attracts the necessary investments in a global context.\n\nEuropean solar-PV companies have been through a solar-PV boom and bust before that makes many stakeholders wary. While there is a potential pathway to competitiveness, companies producing solar-PV products in the region will need bold aspirations and to turn every stone to become competitive. European companies will need to build an entire industry ecosystem to be truly viable in the global market in the long termâ\x80\x94as Chinese companies have done. This will require major efforts by industry leaders, supported by customers, end users, and policy makers.'}...
Article 5: {'title': 'Making Europe’s Solar Future', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Despite a promising start a decade ago, European production of solar power infrastructure has had mixed fortunes. Amid rising geopolitical tensions with China, and supply chains disrupted by the Covid-19 pandemic, the case for a domestic solar manufacturing industry in Europe today is strong. Experts agree the time is now to build on Europe’s technological leadership and industrial sovereignty, and the actions of European companies and investors increasingly reflect this.\n\nAt the beginning of the last decade European solar manufacturing was at its pinnacle, though few knew it at the time. The 2010 EU Solar Energy Conference and Exhibition, held in Valencia, was far from the dowdy affair of previous years, where the results of scientific endeavours to increase the efficiency and reduce the cost of solar photovoltaic (PV) cells, panels, and rooftop or free-field solar systems were discussed in academic detail. Instead, a host of innovative, fast-growing and profitable solar manufacturing companies hosted lavish parties at port-side venues in the Spanish city. The companies were riding high on the rapid growth of the European solar industry, benefiting from generous subsidies first in the Czech Republic, then Spain, Italy, and most significantly, Germany – which saw high tariffs paid for solar electricity fed back into the nations’ electricity networks for 10, 15, and even 20 years.\n\nEarly promise fizzles out\n\nSome of the subsidy programmes were undoubted success stories in that they spurred the development of solar systems and provided the opportunity for solar manufacturing to reach the scale it required to realise significant cost reductions. However, when the tariffs remained high and PV production and installation costs fell, it led to excess and a degree of hubris. For the European manufacturers of solar cells and panels, the transition from profitable to profligate was a rapid one.\n\nGermany-based manufacturer Q-Cells is a telling example. In 2010, the company’s leadership presented themselves as captains of this new, green industry. Yet in a little over two years, Q-Cells declared bankruptcy – with its market valuation having collapsed from almost 8 billion euros in 2007, to less than 35 million euros in 2012.\n\nFor the European manufacturers of solar cells and panels, the transition from profitable to profligate was a rapid one.\n\nThe reasons behind the rapid decline in fortunes of Europe’s PV manufacturers are numerous, but primarily they lost out in the face of fierce competition from aggressive Chinese rivals. Compounding matters, the European solar market experienced a sharp decline in 2013, followed by a multi-year trough – from which it did not recover until 2018. This period saw many European national governments winding up or scaling back subsidy measures – primarily the generous feed-in tariffs (FITs) paid to solar parks for the electricity they fed into the grid. More egregious policy changes were also a feature in countries such as the Czech Republic and Spain, where FITs were altered retroactively or taxes on solar power exports introduced.\n\nThe series of bankruptcies that swept across European manufacturers in the following years have left Europe, in 2021, at somewhat of a crossroads. As the energy transition away from fossil fuels intensifies, a bright dawn for solar installations across the EU is breaking, but the capacity of the bloc to supply these with products manufactured in Europe has been diminished.\n\nInside the solar supply chain\n\nThe solar panels that sit atop homes, businesses, agricultural buildings, and in free fields were formerly comprised of largely made-in-Europe components and technology. The dominant PV technology today is known as crystalline silicon PV, and some of its supply chain mirrors the semiconductor industry – which drives the ICT devices, like laptops and smartphones, that have transformed our lives.\n\nA little over a decade ago, Europe was home to much of the solar supply chain; materials required for each stage of production were all developed and produced in Europe. And the continent’s manufacturing engineers had developed production machinery that allowed solar cells and panels to push their efficiencies ever higher – transferring the technological solutions presented by European researchers into efficient machines that were increasingly accurate and could deliver the world’s best quality at declining costs.\n\nHowever, Europe was not alone in fostering its solar manufacturing sector. China too had spotted the opportunity for a fast-growing “sunrise industry” and several young entrepreneurs had been developing the country’s solar manufacturing, deploying predominantly Australian PV technology and knowhow, since 2002. Suntech is the most notable example, with its pioneering founder Dr Shi Zhengrong, for a time known as “the sun king” having applied the solar skills he had developed at Sydney’s UNSW back to China to establish Suntech and go on to change solar manufacturing forever.\n\nWhile Dr Shi has pointed to China’s low labour costs as behind his decision to establish Suntech’s manufacturing in his home country, there were likely other factors informing his choice. European and US solar manufacturers have claimed that regional Chinese authorities have deployed a range of subsidies, in a bid to create manufacturing jobs in their provinces, but this remains uncertain. It was suggested that these subsidies came in the form of cheap loans, free land for manufacturing facilities and/or heavily subsidised energy – the latter, somewhat ironically, largely from coal-fired generators.\n\nUndoubtedly the Chinese solar engineers’ entrepreneurial spirit and ability to drive costs out of PV production also played a role. As a result, the cost of a solar module fell by close to 90 per cent over a decade. China’s young manufacturers also had considerable success in attracting the foreign capital required to build new factories, with Suntech and others listing on the NASDAQ and raising vast sums. Modern solar technology pioneer Professor Martin Green argued that it was the combination of Australian technology, US capital and Chinese entrepreneurial endeavour that laid the foundations for of success Suntech and a number of other companies that remain dominant forces in today’s PV industry.\n\nIn 2021, more than 80 per cent of the global production of PV cells is now housed in Asia. Europe is home to around 8-10 gigawatts (GW) of solar module assembly capacity, but it is heavily reliant on China for solar cells and other materials such as glass and aluminium frames. As a result, Europe is the technology and price taker, rather than leader, despite the continent’s long track record in developing and deploying solar technology.\n\nChart: IHS Markit\n\nEuropean production equipment suppliers had done brisk business throughout the 2000s, providing high-margin solar manufacturing equipment to the Chinese manufacturers. However, it was a business that was not to last, as domestic producers quickly developed their own capacities. While many European production equipment suppliers have made claims of intellectual property infringements, with their equipment designs and processes often appearing in made-in-China tools, the Chinese technology suppliers have worked closely with the manufacturers, often located in the same region or even the same city, to develop new production techniques and to design, produce and supply the machines at remarkably low costs – itself a key factor in delivering the cheap and efficient PV panels available today.\n\nThe potential for a return to EU solar production\n\nTo investigate whether there could be a future for Europe’s PV manufacturers, German manufacturing equipment industry association VDMA Photovoltaic Equipment tasked one of the country’s leading solar research institutes, the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems (ISE) to conduct an analysis. The study, published in August 2019, concluded that: “A chance still exists … for Europe to play a role in this big future market”.\n\nHowever, the Fraunhofer ISE team found that European market competitiveness depends on a number of important conditions. For instance, transport costs of panels from China to Europe must be taken into account – which the analysis calculates at totalling around 10 per cent of the cost of a panel. Other conditions include the capacity of European production to achieve the necessary economies of scale, the production of essential materials for solar panels at a “locally competitive price” in Europe, and the reduction of “CO 2 and other environmentally harmful emissions to a minimum” to ensure a sustainable “cycling economy, cradle-to-cradle”. “This is not only a big opportunity for high-tech manufacturing in Europe,” Franhofer ISE’s report found, “but also a change to ensure energy security by reducing dependency on imports in the sensitive field of energy generation.” Of course, these conditions depend upon one overwhelming consideration: that European solar manufacturing can attract the investment required. Investors, previously burned by massive losses resulting from a host of solar manufacturing bankruptcies, have been reticent to back European solar manufacturing a second time. In the decade after 2007, when Europe was the market leader in PV production, the global solar market expanded by a factor of seven, according to Fraunhofer ISE. “The required financial flows for investments were provided in China,” the report states, “European companies could not keep up and have therefore disappeared from the market.”\n\nImage: Fraunhofer ISE\n\nHowever, Europe has remained one of the R&D leaders when it comes to PV, with research centres such as Germany’s Fraunhofer ISE, Belgium’s imec, and Switerland’s CSEM, among others, routinely publishing innovations in solar materials and more efficient production technologies.\n\nCovid-19 related global supply chain disruptions and an increased emphasis on Environmental, Social, and Governance (ESG) criteria in investor priorities has resulted in improved conditions for aspiring local solar manufacturers in Europe. Since the beginning of 2020, there has been a roughly 8-to-10-fold increase in container shipping costs from Shanghai to Rotterdam. A report from the Fraunhofer ISE released in April 2021 notes, “buyers are placing more value on sustainable production criteria than they did just a few years ago. Regional production has become affordable.”\n\nIn terms of European manufacturers being able to achieve the scale required for competitiveness, Fraunhofer ISE points to Spanish start-up Greenland, whose strategy is to establish “a highly-automated photovoltaic production line with an output of 5 GW per year” and have devised a plan that involves not only the assembly of imported PV cells from China into panels, but also a cell-to-panel production facility.\n\nDr Jutta Trube, head of VDMA Photovoltaic Equipment, concluded “With the worldwide increasing demand of PV installations, the production has to follow… As we have seen during the corona pandemic, it is appropriate to have several supply options. The dependence of the photovoltaic value chain should be avoided or eliminated as soon as possible.”\n\nAlongside Greenland’s plans in Spain, other European firms such as Switzerland’s Meyer Burger are also pursuing gigawatt-scale plans. In Italy, energy company Enel is rumored to be developing cell and module production of 2 GW in Sicily, and Singapore-headquartered manufacturer REC has previously announced its intention to build 3 GW of solar manufacturing capacity in France.\n\nThe politics of making solar\n\nBesides the market movers and drivers, energy sovereignty is an increasingly important issue, highlighted by the current energy price crisis, with spot electricity prices high across many European marketplaces largely driven by a squeeze on natural gas. Furthermore, if Europe is to meet its stated climate goals and the required solar and wind buildout, a heavy reliance on imported solar cells and panels could conceivably become an energy security issue.\n\nEnergy security and renewables are issues Michael Bloss, a German Green member of the European Parliament, is passionate about. For him, the central question when it comes to energy sovereignty will be: “who is actually able to produce solar panels, who has all the intellectual property rights? Currently we have the unfortunate situation in that we have a lot of knowledge, research and expertise happening in Europe, but all the manufacturing is not happening in Europe.”\n\nA heavy reliance on imported solar cells and panels could conceivably become an energy security issue for Europe.\n\nAt present, there appears to be much attention being paid to battery cell and module manufacturing in Europe and rightly so, with energy storage a crucial part of the energy transition. However, in contrast with the dominant battery cell chemistries being produced today, PV cells and modules require very few scarce and rare earth materials in production. As solar manufacturing has grown in scale, PV producers have proven adept at reducing material consumption as the industry expands – another factor behind the remarkable cost reductions that have been achieved.\n\nIn order to take advantage of this pivotal moment, the European Solar Initiative (ESI) is seeking to strike while the panels are hot, in order to re-establish a strong PV industry in Europe. Solar panels were in short supply in late 2021 and prices have soared to highs not seen since late last decade, according to Martin Schachinger of pvXchange – with prices not expected to return to a downward trajectory for much of 2022.\n\n“The ESI brings together all stakeholders in the complete PV value chain,” explains Dr Jutta Trube, “as well as political actors, to work towards a strong PV industry and clean energy in Europe.” What the ESI is trying to achieve, continued Trube, is “a suitable level playing field”. Given this levelling process, Trube believes European manufacturing can scale up PV manufacturing in the manner required “to reach the goals of the Paris Agreement.”\n\nThe question of potential support measures is a crucial one; tariffs are often blunt, permeable, and, when it comes to the already cost-competitive PV market, distorting. Manufacturing subsidies and aid are more effective, though a flat subsidy is also too heavy-handed a measure for such a complex supply chain.\n\nAnother option is the use of European Recovery funds following the Covid-19 pandemic. For Michael Bloss, “Reconstruction funds can and must be used for solar energy deployment and manufacturing in Europe. We are financing a renovation wave of 35 million buildings and there should be solar panels on the roof of every one of those buildings.” However, adds Bloss, in order to provide the necessary stability for investment in solar manufacturing, “We need to create this market, and I believe there are tools of the EU’s industrial policy that can be used to support renewable energies and create an important project of European interest for solar manufacturing, like we have for hydrogen. That would be important to kickstart and reassure the solar industry in Europe.” Such industrial policy can be as straightforward as making it easier for solar parks in Europe to receive their required development and grid connection permits, and as basic as standardising solar on rooftops for this coming “wave” of renovation.\n\nA done deal?\n\nThe success of policies around solar and the plans to build the large industrial facilities required in Europe will hinge on a number of factors. Stability, both in terms of the European market and the political foundations, will be a crucial prerequisite. One project seeking to foster market stability is the European Technology and Innovation Platform for Photovoltaics (ETIP PV) “Solar Manufacturing Accelerator” project, coordinated by SolarPower Europe, Europe’s peak solar-industry body, which aims to facilitate the rapid development of solar manufacturing projects. It is an open platform aimed at companies and organisations interested in de-risking their solar supply chains or finding local partners and investors. With a coordinated effort, the development of a competitive solar supply chain and manufacturing base in Europe could be seen to carry less risk than 10 years ago, in light of the current demand for renewables. And with supply chains across a wide range of industries under pressure due to the Covid-19 pandemic and current geopolitical circumstances, the value of shorter supply chains has become more evident.\n\nCommunities are likely to be more supportive of both rooftop and free-field solar arrays if more people found employment in the PV industry.\n\nSpeed is another important factor: “We have to be much faster and I think that also creates demand,” says Bloss, “there are already people investing, there is already a solar manufacturing site in Saxony [Germany] with Meyer Burger, so it is already happening it just needs to be accelerated. The future solar energy deployment in Europe is massive, and we can produce it here in Europe. I am quite sure that we will see much bigger investment in the future.”\n\nWhat is more, new industry means new jobs, and the European jobs that will be created by enabling a competitive solar manufacturing industry, and its associated supply chain, will likely bring auxiliary benefits. Communities are likely to be more supportive of both rooftop and, more importantly, free-field solar arrays if more people found employment in the PV industry – essentially enhancing solar’s social license. At present, according to The Renewable Energy and Jobs Annual Review 2021, only one European nation (Germany) features in the top 10 countries for solar employment. Europe holds 6 per cent of the world’s solar jobs (with EU member states accounting for 4.9 per cent). In 2020, PV employment in Europe was estimated at 239,000 jobs, of which 194,000 were in the EU. The latest proposals for expanded solar production capacity in Europe could see thousands of new jobs added throughout the European manufacturing chain, and 3,500 full-time installation jobs for each additional GW of capacity. Given that SolarPower Europe conservatively forecasts the European market will continue to expand by approximately 14 per cent each year up to 2024, it would seem that there will be no shortage of demand for homegrown solar cells and modules – if, that is, there are investors that are willing to deliver supply.'}...
