Article 1: {'title': 'Italvolt to build the first Gigafactory in Italy – Italvolt', 'published_date': '2021-02-15 15:38:00+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Italvolt, founded and led by Lars Carlstrom, the businessman who has been pioneering the automotive industry with over 30 years of experience and a former founder and stockholder of Britishvolt, is poised to build the first Gigafactory in Italy. The factory is destined to become the largest of its kind in Europe\n\nand 12th in the world by size, with its 300,000 m2 of floor space and an initial capacity of 45 GWh. With an estimated 4,000 workers hired and 10,000 jobs created, the Italvolt Gigafactory is one of Italy’s most important projects in recent years, envisaging an overall investment of approximately 4 billion Euros.\n\nThe first stage of the project will be completed by Spring of 2024.\n\nThe first step of the project involves the identification of the area where the plant will be built, at the end of the due diligence activity currently underway on some selected sites at national level. To bring such a challenging project to completion, Lars Carlstrom has chosen Italy, the country renowned throughout the world for its excellence in creating innovative work in the field of technological research and for its long-standing leading role in the automotive industry at international level.\n\nThe new plant’s output will be capable of significantly contributing to the growing demand for batteries in Europe, mostly driven by the automotive industry, that will increase 17 times to approx. 3,600 gigawatt (GWh) by 2030, with an expected demand from the European Union of 565 GWh, second only to China’s expected demand of 1,548 GWh1.\n\nItalvolt’s Gigafactory will be designed by the Architecture Division of Pininfarina, the iconic automotive design brand that has just recently celebrated its 90 years of activity and is already participating in other similarly large projects. With a strong focus on environmental and social impact, Pininfarina intends to develop a new-generation, intelligent and responsible industrial plant by applying DFMA construction methods and by opening the building out to its surroundings, making it merge into the economic and social fabric of the region.\n\nComau, a world leader in industrial automation, with over 45 years of experience and strongly specialized in electrification processes, will be the supplier of innovative solutions, systems and technologies for the gigaplant. Comau will also see to the construction of the Research & Development center that will be home to academic and industrial partners committed to the development of the most forward-thinking technologies in the electric vehicles sector.\n\nLars Carlstrom, CEO and founder of Italvolt, claimed: “With its Gigafactory project, Italvolt intends to seize the historical opportunity for green industrialization that is affecting all production sectors across the board, with a socio-economic impact that will recharge the global economy. The industrial ‘green transition’ is a favorite goal of mine and I am sure that with the launching of Italvolt this passion will take shape. I strongly believe that our team of highly qualified engineers and technicians will produce the most environment-friendly batteries not only in Europe but in the whole world. Our aim is to ensure the future of the automotive industry and guarantee that the supply chain be as green as possible, from start to finish. The socio-economic impact that this new green industrialization is introducing is a turning point for the world”.'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Italvolt – Electrifying the future', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Italvolt has made a strategic decision to locate its battery cell factory in Italy, the country where Alessandro Volta invented the battery in 1800. Today, Italy holds significant opportunity for the modern battery industry, with its strategic location and highly skilled workforce.\n\nItaly has a rich industrial heritage, especially as a hub of Europe’s automotive industry, offering access to a large, skilled workforce. The country’s geographical position offers access to key global markets, sitting at a strategic intersection of the east-west and north-south Mediterranean corridors.\n\nItalvolt intends to honour Italy’s important industrial legacy by supporting the country’s green industrialisation ambitions, and by delivering battery cells which will help drive decarbonisation across a variety of industries.\n\nItalvolt’s 45GWh battery plant will be the Italy’s largest, independent, battery cell factory. The battery cell factory will focus on creating new opportunities for re-skilling and upskilling workers from Italy’s automotive industry.\n\nItalvolt will seek to create new centres of excellence based on advanced engineering and will focus on re-establishing Italy as a leading force in the modern industrial era, while supporting the wider transition to sustainable, battery powered solutions.'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'Italvolt aims to build Italian EV battery plant in spring 2023', 'published_date': '2022-08-17 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Lars Carlstrom, CEO of Italvolt and Statevolt and cofounder of Britishvolt, has revealed more details about Italvolt – the announced 45 GWh battery cell factory in the north-western Italian region of Piedmont. Carlstrom expects to receive the building permit in spring 2023.\n\nAccording to the eeNews Europe interview with Carlstrom, the new factory will make MNC (nickel, manganese, cobalt) lithium-ion battery cells with silicon anodes for car makers to assemble into packs. Carlstrom also said that solid-state cells are also being considered and that the new plans envisage that the site will also include material factories and possibly even the processing of lithium. He said the plant will have over eight production lines, each with a capacity of 6 GWh.\n\n“We are not going to make battery packs yet, we are only focussing on cells,” Carlstrom said. “The battery is the platform of the car and that has to be engineered by the car maker. To make all this happen it has to be a collaboration between cell manufacturer, car makers and the supply chain”\n\nIn the interview, Italvolt’s CEO said that production will start in 2025, with the company aiming to move into mass production in 2027 and 2028. All batteries will have at least a fast-charging function, Carlstrom adds, so that they can be charged in “five or six minutes, just like you fill up your car with petrol”. At full production, the factory should be able to produce cells for 550,000 cars but did not mention whether the factory is aiming to produce cells for other vehicle types.\n\nItalvolt announced the construction project in February 2021, and signed a purchase agreement for the land in September of the same year. The site, which covers an area of around 100 hectares, is located in the municipality of Scarmagno in the northwestern Italian region of Piedmont. In September last year, the company indicated that 30 hectares will be used to build the plant and two hectares will be used to set up an R&D centre.\n\n“As it is a brownfield project it makes it easier to get the permits. We will demolish 95% of the buildings, we are keeping two for the canteen and a small museum, that’s the agreement,” he said. “A gigafactory is very complex and difficult to engineer so you can’t use old buildings. Fires and explosions can take place so the buildings have to be engineered for this, so its probably ten times more expensive than other buildings and not many of these have been built in the world.”\n\nEarlier this year, Lars Carlstrom announced another battery factory in the USA. The newly founded company Statevolt is to build a factory in Southern California’s Imperial Valley that will offer an annual capacity of 54 GWh when fully expanded, which should be enough for around 650,000 electric vehicles. Carlstrom also co-founded Britishvolt and was CEO until he stepped down.\n\nItalvolt has already entered into a number of collaborations, such as with AECOM for the construction of dry rooms, AVL and ABB for electrification and connection to the electricity grid as well as automation and robots for the factory, TÜV SÜD for the control and certification of production processes and American Manganese for the recycling of lithium-ion batteries. Italvolt is also cooperating with the Polytechnic of Milan (Politecnico di Milano) on new battery technologies and recycling.\n\neenewseurope.com'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'Italvolt to build southern Europe’s largest gigafactory', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'The Italian startup takes over the site of a former Olivette factory in the Piedmont region, where it plans to build a battery factory and expand the regional supply chain to help meet rising demand and production for electric vehicles.\n\nItalvolt, a battery cell manufacturing startup, has agreed to a land purchase in Scarmagno, in the Piedmont region in North West Italy, which is set to become the site of one of the largest battery gigafactories planned in Europe.\n\nItalvolt will purchase an area of around 1m sq.m from Prelios Sgr, manager of Fondo Monteverdi, at the site of a former factory of Olivetti, an Italian telecoms group.\n\n“The agreement with Prelios Sgr represents a crucial step in the implementation plan of our gigafactory project,” said Lars Carlstrom, CEO and founder of Italvolt. “We are delighted to have concluded the purchase of the land with input from local authorities. In recent months they have made a significant contribution to the promotion of Italvolt’s project. The decommissioned site offers excellent potential to restore the local industrial heritage, offering jobs and environmental improvements.”\n\nItalvolt has ambitions for capacity at the site to eventually reach 45 gigawatt hours (GWh) per year. The company expects to invest a total of around €3.4 billion ($4 billion).\n\n“We are certain that this will pave the way for new industrial initiatives dedicated to battery production,” added Carlstrom. “To achieve the challenging goal, set by the European Commission, to complete the transition towards a zero-emission automotive industry by 2035, it is necessary to accelerate battery production, and Italvolt is ready to do its part.”\n\nThe Scarmagno site was selected as it already contains existing infrastructure and strategic geographical location for road and rail connections. Around 300,000 sq.m will be reclaimed and repurposed for constructing the new plant, and 20,000 sq.m will be used for a research and development centre.\n\nItalvolt also hopes the site will be able to use Piedmont’s manufacturing capabilities, as it is the leading region in Italy for automotive industrial production, including R&D and manufacturing capabilities for major automotive and industrial brands in and near to Turin, including Fiat, Maserati, Pininfarina and CNH Industrial.\n\nItalvolt confirmed that it received federal and local government support, but no funding, for the site in February 2021.\n\nItalvolt expects to acquire building permits by the beginning of 2022, so construction can begin in the second half of the year. The gigafactory factory is scheduled for completion in 2024.\n\nItalvolt has partnered with Pininfarina’s Architecture Division to design the plant. According to Pininfarina, it plans to develop a new generation industrial plant integrated into the region’s economic and social fabric, with focus on environmental and social impact.\n\nLars Carlstrom had previously founded UK gigafactory startup Britishvolt, before stepping down from the company in December 2020.\n\nBattery gigafactory investment is on the rise in Europe and other regions. According to Daniel Harisson, automotive analyst at Automotive from Ultima Media, global capacity for lithium-ion battery production capacity will rise from 475 GWh in 2020 to more than 2,850 GWh by 2030. Europe will see some of the most investment and capacity expansion, expected to rise from 60 GWh in 2020 to more than 950 GWh by 2030, in an effort to localise supply to meet OEM and government targets for electrification.\n\nItalvolt’s gigafactory is set to be one of several that will be built in southern Europe, where currently there is virtually no capacity. The Volkswagen Group has said at least one of six new gigafactories it plans to build will be in southern Europe.\n\nTrack current and planned battery gigafactories in our database.\n\nAs OEMs ramp up EV production to meet rising global demand, many manufacturers are also investing and expanding their own gigafactory footprints as well as working with battery manufacturers. In recent months, for example, Tesla, Volkswagen Group, General Motors, Ford, Geely and others have announced joint ventures with battery cell manufacturers, or as well as plans to develop in-house battery cell capacity.'}...
Article 5: {'title': 'Italvolt Aims to Build Italian EV Battery Plant in Spring 2023', 'published_date': '2022-08-18 15:05:11+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Italvolt aims to build Italian EV battery plant in spring 2023.\n\nThe changing needs of the supply chain mean a key battery gigafactory project in Italy is evolving, says Lars Carlstrom, CEO of Italvolt.\n\nThe company is starting to build a gigafactory for silicon batteries for electric vehicles in Europe on the old Olivetti site in northern Italy.\n\nNow the site aims to include materials factories and possibly even processing of lithium to avoid the same supply chain problems that have hit the semiconductor industry over the last two years.\n\nThe site in Piedmont will be a major industrial centre, producing up to 45GWh of lithium ion battery cells with renewable and even nuclear energy and employing up to 10,000 people in the local supply chain, says Carlstrom. This has been a powerful argument with the local government in Italy, although the political instability is an issue, he says.\n\nLars Carlstrom, CEO of Italvolt, said:\n\nThings have changed in the last year.\n\n“The market has realised the need for battery cells is massive and they don’t see it as a risk anymore. Now it’s about the minerals and the supply chain and that was what accelerated the venture.”\n\n“I see it as a massive opportunity for Italy to change its destiny and not be stuck in the old way of thinking,” he said.\n\n“We have submitted the first phase in late August and Phase One in October so hopefully we will have building permits in Spring 2023,” he said.\n\n“We are furnishing a lot of detail for the authorities. Compared to the UK with Britishvolt, that took 93 days so it’s a huge difference even if you try to simplify it as much as possible,” he said.\n\nThe site has an emotional connection in Italy, having been the manufacturing plant for electronics giant Olivetti.\n\n“As it is a brownfield project it makes it easier to get the permits. We will demolish 95% of the buildings, we are keeping two for the canteen and a small museum, that’s the agreement,” he said.\n\n“A gigafactory is very complex and difficult to engineer so you can’t use old buildings. Fires and explosions can take place so the buildings have to be engineered for this, so its probably ten times more expensive than other buildings and not many of these have been built in the world.”\n\nHe has already signed up leading European engineering firms for the project, from constructing the buildings to designing the production flow and installing the equipment.\n\n“AECOM is part of the engineering project with Equants, part of Energie is doing dry rooms and AVL supported by ABB for electrification and connection to the grid and for automation and robots for the factory,” he said.\n\nTÜV SÜD has been signed up for control and certification of production processes and American Manganese for recycling of lithium ion batteries.\n\nScale is vital to get the costs down, he says.\n\n“It’s quite low margins in cell manufacturing so you need scale and the supply chain and having it close to the factory the companies need incentives to build their factory nearby,” he said.\n\n“Therefore a gigafactory is a key part of the supply chain, that’s the reason why you can’t have smaller factories Perhaps with higher performance batteries with larger margins for customers such as Maserati for example perhaps that could be a play.\n\n“But if you are going to make the supply chain work and attract suppliers that needs substantial volume. We have eight production lines and each of those is 6GW so we have the opportunity to produce different technologies.”\n\n“We will shortly announce a joint venture with technology for high performance and fast charging so there we will easily support Ferrari and Maserati if they are interested. When we are in production in 2025 and up to scale in 2027 and 2028 all batteries will the fast charging at least and be high performance to charge in five or six minutes the same as filling your car with gas.”\n\nThe war in Ukraine with record prices for liquid gas for electricity is a key issue, as Italvolt will be a major user of energy in Italy. 40% of all gas in Italy is Russian gas, says Carlstrom.\n\n“The energy crisis for Europe is a problem, we need to find more cheap green energy, thermal, solar,” he said. “We are looking at small modular reactors underground so that’s very promising as we cannot have it as we have it now. The factory itself will consume 1% of all energy in Italy which is huge.”\n\n“Italy is one of the leading thermal energy locations but the legislation is not favourable so that’s something we need to put pressure on the authorities,” he said. “It could be like Iceland, it’s a shame they haven’t addressed this sooner and taken this opportunity but it will happen\n\nThe factory will make MNC (nickel, manganese, cobalt) lithium ion battery cells with silicon anodes for car makers to assemble into packs. This requires close cooperation with customers.\n\n“We are not going to make battery packs yet, we are only focussing on cells,” said Carlstrom. “The battery is the platform of the car and that has to be engineered by the car maker. To make all this happen it has to be a collaboration between cell manufacturer, car makers and the supply chain.”\n\nAt full production the factory will be able to produce cells for 550,000 cars but Europe produces 18m cars a year.\n\n“This means many millions of batteries need to be produced and that’s the same for all the other battery gigafactory initiatives, they will not be up to scale until 2030 so that will create issues similar to the semiconductor crisis we see now. It’s going to be tough for the car makers to source batteries so we are in a favourable position,” he said.\n\nCarlstrom points to the $4bn StateVolt project in California that aims to produce enough lithium for 54GWh of batteries.\n\n“Statevolt launched in April sourcing green lithium from CTR (Controlled Thermal Resources and we are in current talks with cathode manufacturers but the basic idea is to have someone to co-locate [at ItalVolt] for refining locally.”\n\n“That’s the intention, we will see how far we can get. They need to be convinced that we are a customer they can count on so when they see the factory being built that will give them confidence. But the European supply chain of minerals is almost non-existent.”\n\nAnother key material is for the anode.\n\n“Silicon anodes – we are exactly on that technology, and we want to have the entire ecosystem as close as possible to the gigafactory. We will employ 2500 to 3000 people but the initiative itself will secure at least 10000 jobs in the area and that’s what we are mapping in the area,” he said. “\n\n“That’s massive and necessary as the transition from the internal combustion engine (ICE) to electric vehicles will cause unemployment as Italy is strong in ICE and companies will lay off a lot of people. That’s an advantage for us as it gives us access to a skilled workforce so we need to accelerate the process and recreate the supply chain.”\n\nHowever the increased size of the venture naturally raises questions around the funding. That’s one of the key differences in the last year, with funds understanding both the need for battery cells and the importance of the supply chain and sourcing minerals.\n\n“This was the crucial thing and we have a number of ways of funding,” said Carlstrom. “The real estate is one opportunity and there are a lot of funds available for such an initiative.”\n\n“We have had to explain to the market where we will get €3.5bn but governments and private equity are fuelling a lot of money into these ventures. It’s a huge amount of money but in the downturn it is probably one of the areas that is still being funded.”\n\n“We have some issues with the government crisis [in Italy] so we will see in September but we have support from the government so far. We also need to wait for the new government in September.”\n\nCompetitors such as NorthVolt have received significant backing from the European Investment Bank (EIB), investment funds and private equity funds.\n\n“We were liaising with them last year but now we are launching the technology we are intensifying the discussions,” he said. “Private equity is also a very important part and this autumn we are heading into that phase so we are talking to a number of opportunities that are very interesting.”\n\nThen it will be up to customers to fund specific technology requirements. “Funding through contracts will be late next year with bank funding for operating costs.”\n\nWhile car maker Stellantis is the obvious choice for a customer with its Italian business of Fiat, Lancia and Alfa Romeo as well as Vauxhall, Opel, Citroen and Peugeot, this may be an issue as sites consolidate and close.\n\n“We can see Stellantis will close a lot of activities in Italy but still with the location we are close to France and Germany so we are in a very good location, so we can support both Stellantis and a number of other manufacturers,” he said.\n\nThe aim is to float the company on the US stock market.\n\n“We are very keen to support localisation so its Italy first and then Europe but the opportunity for big money is not in Europe but in America,” he said. “The IPO market is also probably New York and not Europe for the possible exit and the value acceleration. In the US you can essentially borrow the complete equity from the Department of Energy to catch up , they are funnelling huge amounts into industry.\n\nFuture battery technology\n\nWhile the initial focus is on NMC lithium ion cells with silicon anodes, the company will be able to produce other technologies, initially for storage batteries. “You can build factories for those in three to five years’ time,” he said.\n\nThen there is solid state battery technology which is already emerging in a vehicle design by Nio in China.\n\n“Now its happening so we are trying to future proof as much as possible with new machinery and consider solid state technology. But the transition is costly for OEMs. Battery technology will change every third year so the vehicle platform needs to change every third year so that will need higher collaboration between OEMs with platform sharing so it will ridiculously expensive to replace a platform every three years.”\n\nIt is also working with the Politecnico di Milan on new battery technologies and recycling.\n\n“That means we will also need to implement new production in the gigafactory so you need to engineer the factory in the proper way from the beginning,” he said.\n\nAll these supply chain and electrification trends are driving the design and development of the site. With €3.5bn to raise at the start of a global recession, Carlstrom is confident that those trends will work in his favour over the next couple of years.\n\nREAD the latest Batteries News shaping the battery market\n\nCEO Interview: Lars Carlstrom of Italvolt on battery gigafactories, August 16, 2022'}...
