Article 1: {'title': 'Mass-produced European solar panels on the horizon', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Solar cells and panels, or modules, are central to Europe’s commitment to using renewable energy to meet up to a third of its energy needs by 2030. But while the energy will be home produced, almost none of the necessary hardware is made in Europe.\n\nMost mass-produced cells and modules are from China, Taiwan and Malaysia, according to an EU report. The most efficient crystalline silicon solar-cell technology concepts on the market – interdigitated back-contacted (IBC) type solar cells – are produced by a small number of American and Asian firms.\n\nEurope is now closer to having its own version of this technology. The EU-funded NEXTBASE project has developed highly efficient IBC solar cells in the silicon heterojunction configuration (IBC-SHJ).\n\nThe NEXTBASE cells can convert 25.4 % of the solar energy they capture into power.\n\n‘This is a European record for an industrially feasible version of IBC-SHJ technology,’ says project coordinator Kaining Ding of the Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH research organisation in Germany.\n\n‘The current laboratory world record for a silicon solar cell is 26.7 %, which was also based on the IBC-SHJ concept but was very expensive to make. Our approach is close to the optimum level.’\n\nNEXTBASE researchers have also developed a prototype 4-cell x 4-cell solar module that has achieved 23.2 % efficiency, which is among the highest silicon module efficiencies ever reported. Encouraged by these results, the project team has developed a cost-effective manufacturing method that could produce such modules for under EUR 0.275/watt, enabling electricity generation at costs similar to generation with standard Asian-made technologies.\n\n‘It makes Europe competitive in solar cell manufacturing,’ says Ding.\n\nEnergy-tech innovations\n\nDing adds that the cells can make Europe’s energy more sustainable and secure. ‘The higher efficiency fosters the transition to renewables as it produces more energy from smaller areas than similar less-efficient cells,’ he explains, adding: ‘From an environmental and societal view, it is better to produce locally.’\n\nThe IBC-SHJ technology is key to the impressive energy conversion rate. Metallic contacts in standard mass-produced solar technology are on the front and back, wasting the solar energy that is blocked by the metal on the front. In contrast, back-contacted cells have all the connections at the back, so that they can capture solar energy across their entire front surface, in addition to being aesthetically pleasing.\n\nExisting IBC-type modules sell only to a premium market and are expensive to make, according to Ding. The 14 industry and research partners in the NEXTBASE consortium changed designs and processes for the silicon wafers, the cells and the modules in this technology to make them both more efficient and more cost-effective.\n\nDing explains that IBC-SHJ cells have complicated structures. ‘There was no cost-competitive industrial way to produce them.’\n\nNEXTBASE member Meyer Burger Research AG developed an automated process for producing the cells cheaply. ‘This process was very successful and simple,’ says Ding.\n\nPilot preparations\n\nDing believes that NEXTBASE can increase manufacturing and consumer interest in European photovoltaic technology and make IBC-SHJ modules more attractive to consumers. ‘The results are leading to commercialisation of high-efficiency PV modules based on next-generation c-Si solar cells. Without EU funding, the partners would not have worked together that closely,’ says Ding. ‘Everyone has an active interest in doing the work, even beyond the project.’\n\nThe next step will be to demonstrate that the NEXTBASE cell can work in larger modules and to industrialise production. The partners are planning a project for a pilot line, led by Meyer Burger Research AG, which now has a patent on the cell.\n\nHowever, scientific information about the project’s innovations can be accessed on the NEXTBASE website, including its cost and life-cycle impact analysis, allowing other projects and businesses to develop additional next-generation solar technology in Europe.'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'The weekend read: EU solar manufacturing – The time is now', 'published_date': '2022-03-12 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'From pv magazine 03/2022\n\nPV veterans will remember with a heavy heart the relatively recent decimation of the continent’s manufacturing landscape, after Asian competitors outpriced and out supplied their European peers at eyewatering speed. However, as Europe remains one of the largest solar markets globally, deployment levels continue to ramp up, and sustainability issues come to the fore, calls for meaningful domestic manufacturing capacity to be re-erected have become increasingly loud over the past few years, and it appears that in 2022 they may begin to be answered.\n\nThe SolarPower Europe (SPE) trade group is one of many organizations determined to re-establish a homegrown solar manufacturing landscape. In a recent op-ed on pv-magazine.com, CEO Walburga Hemetsberger stated that the association envisions 20GW of PV production in Europe by 2025, covering the entire value chain, from polysilicon to modules. “This is the objective we set for the European Solar Initiative, an industrial alliance we launched in February this year [2021], which facilitates the redevelopment of industrial projects in Europe,” she wrote. As she pointed out, however, manufacturers must establish gigawatt-scale fabs to be cost competitive.\n\nState of play\n\nIn July 2021, German research body the Fraunhofer Institute of Solar Energy Systems (ISE) released its “Photovoltaics Report,” which details the current state of European crystalline silicon PV manufacturing, as of the end of 2020. Looking at the map, while solar-grade polysilicon production capacity is relatively well established, the rest of the supply chain has a way to go if it is to achieve a meaningful share.\n\nIndeed, according to the chart, Europe had 22.1GW of polysilicon production capacity in operation, but just 1.25GW of solar wafer production capacity, 650MW of solar cell capacity, and 6.75GW of solar module production capacity.\n\nLast April, the European Solar Manufacturing Council (ESMC), an association of European manufacturers and research institutes, said that at least 75% of PV demand in Europe should be covered by domestic production, while two-thirds of PV products produced in Europe should be exported.\n\nThis would mean building up 60GW of manufacturing capacity on the continent by 2026 – three times what SPE is calling for. The current trade deficit of €10.5 billion ($11.8 billion) in solar cells and modules could be converted into around €50 billion of PV production on the continent, said the council, which would create around 178,000 new jobs in Europe.\n\nDecarbonize Europe - Green light to new avenues for solar and storage pv magazine virtual Roundtables Europe 2022 will address European decarbonization for the acceleration of the continent’s energy transition. Solar and energy storage will remain central to the discussion, but we will also look across sectors to explore how they can be effectively electrified or supplied with clean energy. Join the event on June 28 & 29 for free.\n\nOf the €723.8 billion the European Union wants to provide through its post-pandemic reconstruction program – the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) – the ESMC says that €20 billion should be used to shore up the European PV industry. In a report issued in late December, it wrote that “to benefit from the support of the RRF, EU member states must submit recovery and resilience plans (RRPs), with the reforms and investments to be implemented by the end of 2026 … In ESMCs RRP evaluation effort, a total of €477 million have been identified as direct support for PV manufacturing. They consist of both loans and grants to establish or strengthen the PV value chain in Italy, Romania, and Croatia.”\n\nItaly is said to hold the largest direct RRP support for solar PV manufacturing, with €400 million dedicated to help reach the national target of 2GW annual manufacturing capacity by December 2025, said ESMC, while in Romania, €50 million has been allocated to develop 200MW of PV production capacity, and in Croatia, €26.5 million has been dedicated to the development of environmentally friendly production processes, including PV manufacturing.\n\nRamping up\n\nSome significant steps were made in 2021 to ramp volumes up, predominantly in Germany, with Switzerland-based Meyer Burger Technology AG opening a 400MW module and a 400MW cell factory at two separate locations in Germany last March for its heterojunction products. Following financing in July 2021 to accelerate its production capacities, this year is expected to be a “ramp-up year” with plans to increase its annual European cell production to 1.4GW and module production to 1GW by the end of 2022.\n\nThe UK’s Oxford PV also completed the build-out of its 100MW Brandenburg fab for its crystalline silicon heterojunction/perovskite tandem PV cells last July. It too expects the line to start full production in 2022 and CEO Frank P. Averdung told pv magazine at the time that it is in the “final stages” of a funding round that will allow the company to expand beyond the initial 100MW line up to gigawatt scale. “We hope we will be able to communicate the closure of the funding very soon,” he said.\n\nMeanwhile, in a recently announced partnership, Sonnenstromfabrik (CS Wismar GmbH) is expanding its 200MW module manufacturing operations in Wismar with the addition of a new 300MW line. The German company will use REC Group’s award-winning and patented half-cut cell and twin module and junction box design for the manufacture of two new PERC module products utlizing large format wafers.\n\nAnd on the wafer front, another German company, Fraunhofer ISE spinoff NexWafe GmbH – which manufactures high-efficiency monocrystalline silicon kerfless wafers – is gearing up to start commercial production this year, following an injection of €32 million in 2021, €25 million of which came from Indian conglomerate Reliance Industries Limited. In addition to manufacturing in Germany, Reliance will be granted access to NexWafe’s patented technology to utilize in its planned gigawatt manufacturing facility in India.\n\nWhile there are many plans taking place in Germany, Italy is also a hot spot for PV manufacturing, as the EMSC mentioned. Last November, renewable energy company and PV module manufacturer Enel Green Power (EGP), a unit of Italian power utility Enel, secured an undisclosed sum from the European Union to scale up its 200MW heterojunction cell and module factory in Catania to 3GW.\n\nSpeaking to pv magazine this January, new EGP CEO Salvatore Bernabei said the company is “planning to start the works for the enlargement of the factory soon. We will add a new building close to the existing one.” The factory is expected to begin manufacturing activities by the end of 2023 and to reach full capacity by mid-2024.\n\nA month later, Enel announced that Italian engineering company Comal is planning a 1GW solar tracker manufacturing fab in the power company’s Montalto di Castro power plant in Italy. The new factory – “Tracker Sun Hunter” – will see Comal manufacture trackers across an area of over 30,000 square meters inside Enel’s plant which is no longer used for energy generation.\n\nPopular content\n\nIn France, REC Group said in November 2020 that it is planning to build a 4GW PV module factory in the northwestern region of Moselle. Work was expected to commence this year; however, delays have seen this pushed back. In a statement released in June 2021, the company said, “REC Solar France teams and partners remain mobilized and are working hand in hand to bring the project to a successful conclusion as soon as possible.”\n\nAccording to the initial announcement, everything will be done on-site including the production of cells, assembly of modules, quality control, receipt of raw materials and shipment of finished products.\n\nSustainable path\n\nAs mentioned in the February edition of pv magazine (pp.74-77), Europe is also on a mission to establish itself as a key manufacturing base for batteries to support both the growth of electric vehicles and stationary storage projects. Over the past six years, ambitious plans have been announced to achieve this goal, with the latest predictions suggesting that 35 gigafactories will be operational by 2035.\n\nOne of the key priorities is to build a sustainable manufacturing industry. This is also vital for the solar value chain and something that is being taken seriously. As pv magazine said in the third quarter of 2020, as part of the UP Initiative’s Circular Manufacturing quarterly theme, the creation of a circular PV economy is an EU priority under its proposed Green Deal.\n\nFor example, the Circusol project, which stands for Circular Business Models, is an Innovation Action project funded by the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 program. It seeks not only to unearth new business opportunities, like solar as a service, but also to look at the redesign and recyclability of solar products, among other issues. A part of this consortium has seen Lithuanian module maker SoliTek investigate barriers and opportunities related to solar module circularity, to propose alternative design options. pv magazine will publish the results of this investigation during the second quarter.\n\nStating that now is the time to reinvest in the European manufacturing industry and take advantage of the TW-scale opportunities ahead, Germany’s Fraunhofer ISE established the Green Manufacturing Consortium in 2019. It is a German publicly funded project, comprising 20 industrial partners, four institutes and two industry associations, including First Solar, Meyer Burger, Total, Wacker, VDMA, Oxford PV, and Von Ardenne.\n\nThe objective is to develop an “economic-ecological evaluation methodology for a sustainable future factory for the production of innovative PV modules,” Jochen Rentsch, said head of the department production technology division photovoltaics at Fraunhofer ISE, in 2020.\n\nThe overarching goal of the project is to develop an economic-ecological evaluation methodology for a sustainable future factory – 10GW in size and easily scalable beyond that – to produce innovative PV modules. “Via a comprehensive energy and material flow model of scaled and vertically integrated PV fabs we will simulate changes in production capacity, factory layout, supply systems, production facilities and processes as well as recycling of materials through recycling processes and other value-added stages,” explained Rentsch.\n\nAt the time, Fraunhofer ISE Director Andreas Bett said reestablishing a European PV manufacturing market represents a “big opportunity” to ensure energy security by reducing dependency on imports, lowering costs, and addressing sustainability. “Why transport large and heavy PV modules the long distance from Asia and cause CO2 emissions and added cost? For example, module costs of €0.20/W can be soon realized, and transport costs from China to Europe can be up to €0.025/W,” he wrote.\n\nSustainability is also a key priority for both REC Group and Sonnenstromfabrik. Indeed, talking about the recently announced partnership, managing director of the latter, Bernhard Weilharter, said that producing low-carbon products is a central aim for the company. The journey started in 2016 when Sonnenstromfabrik began supplying the French market with certified low carbon modules. It now completes life cycle assessments for all its products, and in some markets it also secures an Eco Passport to back its environmental credentials.\n\nMeanwhile, REC Group not only produces its wafers in Norway using hydro energy, but it also focuses on upcycling kerf via a “unique new kerf processing technology” – during the standard wafer slicing process, around 30% of the silicon remains as waste, or kerf – to reuse it in cells and modules, said Agnieszka Schulze head of global PR at REC Solar EMEA GmbH. It further produces “polysilicon with the lowest carbon footprint,” she added.\n\nDecarbonization plans\n\nAfter a period of stagnation, the European PV industry is again stepping onto the world manufacturing stage. Thus, pv magazine will spend the second quarter looking at the companies acting to establish PV fabs, particularly those which are doing so in a sustainable manner.\n\nIn addition to revisiting the circular manufacturing projects highlighted in the third quarter of 2020, we will be looking at the challenges European manufacturers face, the advantages of producing Made in Europe solar products, and what needs to be done to convince political leaders and other decision-makers to jump on board.\n\npv magazine sees this transition as being crucial if Europe is to achieve its decarbonization plans in a sustainable way. This will therefore be a topic that will be addressed via the UP Initiative, but also at its virtual Roundtables Europe event on June 28 and 29. For more information, contact up@pv-magazine.com.'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'SolarPower Europe Launches Solar Manufacturing Accelerator', 'published_date': '2021-02-26 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': "Sign up for daily news updates from CleanTechnica on email. Or follow us on Google News\n\nThe European Solar Initiative and Solar Power Europe have teamed up to launch the new Solar Manufacturing Accelerator. This new platform is aimed at accelerating the deployment of solar PV manufacturing projects in Europe — something that strengthens the EU’s leadership in clean energy technologies. It also contributes to the re-industrialization of Europe.\n\nThis initiative is coordinated by SolarPower Europe and has the support of its partners, ESMC, ETIP-PV, IPVF, and the VDMA. It’s open to any company or organization that wants to develop or partner on solar manufacturing projects. The platform will cover a broad portfolio of European solar manufacturing projects. It will do this by identifying partners and reaching out to financial investors with the goal of increasing the number of solar PV manufacturing projects in Europe. It also aims to contribute to the success of the European Green Deal.\n\nWalburga Hemetsberger, CEO of SolarPower Europe, shared a statement. “As the lowest cost and most job intensive renewable technology, solar is poised to deliver the goals of the European Green Deal and Green Recovery. The momentum is building to scale up manufacturing activities in the EU, based on the strong domestic market uptake confirmed in 2020 despite the COVID-19 pandemic and the sustained technological leadership of the European companies. Following the successful launch of the Solar Manufacturing Accelerator in May 2020, today we are delighted to further boost the solar industry, with EIT InnoEnergy, by launching the European Solar Initiative.”\n\nThere’s also a Business Investment Platform, which accompanies the development of comprehensive and competitive solar PV manufacturing projects in Europe. It bridges the gap between project developers and investors. Businesses can apply to join and project developers will be accompanied in the maturation of their project and in reaching out to financiers.\n\nHave a tip for CleanTechnica? Want to advertise? Want to suggest a guest for our CleanTech Talk podcast? CleanTechnica Holiday Wish Book Have a tip for CleanTechnica? Want to advertise? Want to suggest a guest for our CleanTech Talk podcast? Contact us here Click to download. Our Latest EVObsession Video I don't like paywalls. You don't like paywalls. Who likes paywalls? Here at CleanTechnica, we implemented a limited paywall for a while, but it always felt wrong — and it was always tough to decide what we should put behind there. In theory, your most exclusive and best content goes behind a paywall. But then fewer people read it!! So, we've decided to completely nix paywalls here at CleanTechnica. But... Like other media companies, we need reader support! If you support us, please chip in a bit monthly to help our team write, edit, and publish 15 cleantech stories a day! Thank you! Advertisement CleanTechnica uses affiliate links. See our policy here"}...
Article 4: {'title': 'EU Solar Manufacturing Map', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'This is a dynamic map that allows you to use the filter system and select any segment of the value chain, in any country. If you would like more information about this map, or if you want your company to be included, please contact Christophe Lits at c.lits@solarpowereurope.org .'}...
