Article 1: {'title': 'ProLogium Welcomes The Green Light Given By The European Commission For Public Grant For Its Gigafactory Project In Dunkirk', 'published_date': '2023-08-03 10:39:19+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'These decisions demonstrate the commercial viability of ProLogium’s solid-state battery technology. Strong endorsements of the project will not only supply the European automotive industry with advanced batteries manufactured using decarbonized energy but will also play a pivotal role in the French government’s green reindustrialization strategy.\n\n“The team at ProLogium is thrilled to receive this good news from the European Commission. Over the course of an extensive year-long review, our expansion plan, technology, and manufacturing capabilities underwent strict scrutiny by experts. The approval of this substantial grant is a testament of ProLogium’s potential contribution to achieving Net Zero in France and Europe, as well as the value of our innovative solutions,” says Vincent Yang, Founder and CEO of ProLogium. “We would like to express our deepest gratitude to the EU and French government for their unwavering trust and support. This grant will serve as a powerful financial backing for ProLogium’s Gigafactory project, empowering us to make steady progress in Dunkirk towards our goal: implementing local supply and manufacturing for European OEM customers.”\n\n“ProLogium’s investment in the region is substantial, and its impact will be long-lasting. The gigafactory will not only create 3,000 jobs but also establish a comprehensive research and development ecosystem. This project promises significant economic benefits, strengthening both French and European economic sovereignty while driving the transition towards a greener industry. We are fully committed to Europe and France, and we extend our sincere gratitude to the European Commission, the French government, the Hauts-de-France region, the city and the urban community of Dunkerque, as well as the Grand Port Maritime of Dunkirk, and all the institutional stakeholders for their trust and support in our project,” commented Gilles Normand, President of ProLogium Europe.\n\nThe next step for ProLogium is the launch of the public consultation process under the aegis of the CNDP, which will begin in September 2023. Construction of the Gigafactory is set to begin in the second half of 2024, with production estimated to start by the end of 2026. ProLogium is actively scouting locations for its R&D center. As part of its expansion, ProLogium will initiate the recruitment process, seeking talented professionals to spearhead these projects.'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'ProLogium Announces €5.2b Gigafactory in Dunkirk France and Greets French President Emmanuel Macron', 'published_date': '2023-05-13 15:00:58+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Specifically, ProLogium’s objective is threefold: to put down roots in Europe, to mass-produce next-generation batteries for electric vehicles (EVs), and to support the energy transition of the EU automotive industry, as ICE car sale will be banned by 2035. ProLogium will invest a total of €5.2 billion to set up a 48 GWh gigafactory and an R&D center, strategically located in Europe. The localization of advanced battery manufacturing will also be a significant milestone in French government’s green reindustrialization strategy.\n\nFounded in 2006, ProLogium has demonstrated its ability to produce solid-state battery (SSB) on a large scale. Its automated pilot production line was activated in 2017, and since then ProLogium has mastered the key to solid-state battery commercialization, with years of experience in various consumer and industrial electronics applications. Its proprietary technologies are protected by over 600 patents worldwide. With the gigafactory in Dunkirk, ProLogium will provide the European automotive industry state-of-the-art battery solutions produced with decarbonized energy. ProLogium next-generation batteries will enable better performance for EVs and will help drive the energy transition of the sector.\n\nSafer, greener, lighter batteries that charge faster\n\nThe technology developed by ProLogium may provide an answer to limitations faced by current EVs as it demonstrates better safety, durability, and faster-charge capability, all of which contribute to elevated user experience for EV drivers.\n\nProLogium replaces the fragile and flammable separator and liquid electrolyte in current LIBs with robust ceramic separator and uninflammable solid-state electrolyte. With improved safety, ProLogium’s solid-state battery allows for the use of highly active cathode and anode materials, thus enabling higher energy density, which means longer range for EV drivers. Solid-state battery can also reduce the time for EV recharge to a level similar to the time it takes to refuel an ICE car.\n\nProLogium is also dedicated to making batteries for a greener future. Leveraging the proprietary solid structure and stable chemical properties of its solid-state electrolyte, ProLogium developed the patented “original-phase recycling” technology, a streamlined process to recycle a higher proportion of solid-state electrolyte with lower energy consumption. From recovery to reuse, the entire recycling process will help build up a sustainable circular economy for the local battery industry.\n\nMoreover, the use of decarbonized electricity for manufacturing processes will further reduce the carbon footprint of EVs with ProLogium battery inside.\n\nProLogium gigafactory in Dunkirk will yield positive economic benefits for the territory\n\nThe city of Dunkirk was selected from a long list of over 90 cities in Europe following a rigorous review process for its well-established infrastructure and superb geographic assets, this region will allow ProLogium to benefit from a supply of stable and low-carbon electricity at a competitive price, thanks to various sources of decarbonized electricity that are or will soon be present in Dunkirk, first and foremost the EDF power plant in Gravelines, but also the future offshore wind farm and a photovoltaic plant. This project will be located in the port of Dunkirk, close to Northern European automotive manufacturing plants and the international shipping network. These features make Dunkirk an ideal location to realize ProLogium’s vision of implementing local supply and local manufacturing for European OEM customers.\n\nLocated at the heart of Northern France’s “Battery Valley”, the ProLogium gigafactory site will also enjoy the advantages afforded by a thriving battery ecosystem supported by robust research capabilities.\n\nProLogium’s project is expected to create 3,000 direct jobs and 12,000 indirect jobs for the local Dunkirk community by 2030. Scheduled to start production by the end of 2026, the construction is set to begin in the second half of 2024 once the public concertation, under the supervision of the CNDP, and permitting process are complete. ProLogium also plans to establish an R&D center in France as part of its localization efforts.\n\n“We were competing with the entire world and you chose France and Dunkirk. You trust in a country and an industrial site over the long term, and so we will be committed to meet the deadlines, the financing and everything that will enable you to succeed over the long term.” said French President Emmanuel Macron. “Thank you, well done and keep it up. You can be proud of what you have done.”\n\n“Today is a special day for our company as we announce our major commitment in Europe, and particularly in France. We would like to express our sincere appreciation to France and the people of Dunkirk for welcoming us to the community,” remarked Vincent Yang, Founder and CEO of ProLogium.\n\n“We are thrilled by the opportunity to set up our base in Dunkirk, a perfect location for us to localize our value chain and be close to our customers and markets. With steadfast backing from the French government and our partners from the battery value chain in Europe, we want to contribute to the development of the battery valley in Northern France and accelerate the transition to clean transportation with solid-state battery industrialization. This is in line with our vision and mission to drive the wide adoption of e-mobility and create a better and cleaner world for the generations to come.”\n\nGilles Normand, ProLogium Executive Vice President International Development, commented “Selecting an ideal location in Europe has been an intense year-long process. Over 90 potential sites across 13 countries were reviewed. The final choice has been difficult with 3 formidable final contenders. We are pleased to put our roots down in Dunkirk, France after comprehensive evaluation. We have felt a strong sense of support at every level of the French Government in the process led by Business France and the Minister of Economy, Finances and Industrial & Digital Sovereignty. We would like to express our special thanks to the Region Hauts de France, the Communauté Urbaine de Dunkerque and the Grand Port Maritime de Dunkerque for their continuous support, which has exceeded our expectations in more ways than one. Today marks the completion of the first phase of our project. Moving forward, it’s time to work with all stakeholders and the people of Dunkirk to make our vision of carbon neutrality a reality.”\n\nAbout ProLogium :\n\nFounded in 2006, ProLogium is an energy innovation firm focused on the R&D and manufacturing of next-generation battery solutions for EV, consumer, and industrial applications. ProLogium is currently the only solid-state battery maker in the world to have demonstrated mass production readiness and capabilities. Its proprietary technologies cover more than 600 (applied and awarded) patents globally.\n\nProLogium’s automated pilot production line has supplied nearly 8,000 solid-state battery sample cells to international automotive OEMs for testing and module development.'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'EU leading PV technology innovation, plans for 100GW solar manufacturing capacity by 2030', 'published_date': '2022-02-24 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': "Meyer Burger initiated 400MW of solar cell and module capacity in 2021. By 2022, this should be further expanded to 1.4GW for solar cells and 1 GW for modules. In the long term, production volumes of 5GW per year are targeted.\n\nEurope remains one of the largest solar installation markets globally; however, its once-thriving manufacturing base ground to a halt around a decade ago as Asian competitors outpriced and out supplied their European peers at eyewatering speed.\n\nWith solar deployment levels continuing to ramp up, and sustainability issues coming increasingly to the fore, calls for meaningful domestic manufacturing capacity to be re-erected have grown louder over the past few years. 2022 might be the time they are answered.\n\nLast April, the European Solar Manufacturing Council (ESMC) said that at least 75% of PV demand in Europe should be covered by domestic production. However, as pv magazine outlines in the upcoming March issue, in 2020, Europe had 22.1GW of polysilicon production capacity in operation, but just 1.25GW of solar wafer production capacity, 650MW of solar cell capacity, and 6.75GW of solar module production capacity, based on figures issued by the Fraunhofer Institute of Solar Energy Systems (ISE) in its 2021 Photovoltaics Report. Thus, the industry has a way to go if it is to achieve meaningful capacities.\n\nIn the following interview, Johan Lindahl, ESMC secretary general talks to pv magazine about the current state of play, the challenges and opportunities facing European solar manufacturers, and the plans that have been identified to achieve GW-scale capacities.\n\nEuropean manufacturing Plans to power up a competitive European solar and battery manufacturing landscape abound. Ambitious proposals are in place to establish a booming, sustainable industry with investment earmarked, factories planned, and political strategies outlined. Will they be realized? The UP Initiative will spend Q2 delving into these questions.\n\npv magazine: What challenges do European manufacturers face? Where are the opportunities?\n\nJohan Lindahl: We have identified several challenges for the competitiveness of the European PV manufacturing industry:\n\nInvisible, but extensive grants, loans, credit, and tax support in China.\n\nVisible and extensive grant support in the US and India.\n\nLimited market deployment of EU PV innovations in the local market and not properly protected IP and Patents in external markets.\n\nStrict European PV manufacturing and labor standards that are not reflected by the respective standards outside the EU.\n\nPotential higher PV components pricing and supply chain problems as a structural problem.\n\nWith regards to opportunities, we have identified several, including:\n\nIndustrial PV production in Europe is starting to be cost-competitive. Recently, the price differences between European and Asian products have diminished due to current production and transportation costs and the significant increase in delivery times for Asian products. European PV manufacturing could be price competitive on two conditions: GW-scale PV manufacturing capacities and complete manufacturing value-chains in Europe. The EU needs to keep complete value chains for at least part of our needs without imports, notwithstanding the fact that imports will of course remain an important factor.\n\nEurope still holds a leading position in PV technology innovation, but this can only remain so if an industrial manufacturing base exists. The traditional aluminum back surface technology of solar cells (Al-BSF) with an energy conversion efficiency of 18-22% is currently being replaced by passivated emitter and rear contact (PERC) technology and its variants, which allows solar to achieve higher efficiencies of 20-24%, with only a moderate cost involved in upgrading production lines. The next step to third-generation high-efficiency PV cells will allow even higher efficiencies of 23-26%, based on heterojunction (HJT) or TOPCon technologies. These can be produced today at a similar cost to PERC cells, in the 20-30 euro ct/Wp price range, resulting in competitive or even lower LCOEs of solar electricity due to the higher efficiencies of the more costly premium modules. There are further technology improvements possible down the road, from Perovskite-Si tandem cells with more than 30% efficiency. These technology advancements are still being spearheaded in Europe, paving the way for the worldwide deployment of terawatt-scale PV.\n\nEuropean policy frameworks for the long-term development of renewables have been created. The European Green Deal and Renovation wave have built the confidence and trust of investors and developers.\n\nSustainability, carbon-neutral and eco-design principles together with concrete criteria under consideration have emerged, including recently announced measures to address foreign subsidy distortions in the EU market. These principles became the driving force of the EU's transformation towards green and innovative energy systems and economies. The increasing concern of all customers on CO2 footprint will have structural consequences for the PV manufacturing industry. PV modules produced in Europe using power and resources with favorable CO2 balance and avoiding long-distance transport can show much better eco-design parameters than current Asian products, and this aspect will increase in importance in the coming years.\n\nA potential competitive advantage for European PV manufacturing has emerged due to new ways to deploy PV in integrated systems. A variety of innovative solutions are being developed and growing rapidly in various sectors including building-integrated PV (BIPV), vehicle integrated PV (VIPV), floating PV (FPV), and agricultural PV (APV). European PV manufacturing companies could benefit from the specific European and local requirements as the integrated systems are more demanding for individually customized solutions.\n\nHow much of the solar manufacturing value chain is currently represented in Europe, broken down by segment and capacities? Which areas need to be strengthened?\n\nWe don't have numbers for every part of the value chain but these are the general figures in 2020:\n\n11% of global PV silicon production: 22.1GW production capacity (Elkem & Wacker)\n\n1% of global PV silicon solar wafer production: 1.25GW production capacity (Norsun, Norwegian Crystals & EDF Photowatt)\n\n0.4% of global PV silicon cell production: 0.65GW production capacity (Solitek/Valoe, Enel, Ecosolifer)\n\n3% of global module production: 6.75GW production capacity (at 29 different companies)\n\n25% of inverter production\n\nAnd this is in a context where Europe installed 15% of all PV capacity in the world in 2020. So, we need to strengthen wafer, cell, and module production if we want to be more self-reliable.\n\nPopular content\n\nCurrently, Europe has a quite severe negative trade deficit when it comes to PV cells and modules. The table below features the total traded value out and into Europe as a region of the international customs category; Photosensitive semiconductor devices, including photovoltaic cells whether assembled in modules or made up into panels; and light-emitting diodes.\n\n2016 [million US$] 2017 [million US$] 2018 [million US$] 2019 [million US$] 2020 [million US$] European imports 6 331 6 484 8 107 10 472 10 414 European exports 1 701 1 645 1 721 1 565 1 767 Trade deficit -4 629 -4 838 -6 386 -8 907 -8 647\n\nWhat European manufacturing plans will be executed in 2022/2023?\n\nBelow are some examples of capacity expansion plans that have officially been communicated. We are aware of some additional large projects, but they have not yet been officially released:\n\nCompany Manufacturing plans Meyer Burger Initiated 400MW of solar cell and module capacity in 2021. By 2022, this should be further expanded to 1.4GW for solar cells and 1 GW for modules. In the long term, production volumes of 5GW per year are targeted. Greenland Giga Factory A 5GW vertically integrated PERC module factory in Seville, southern Spain. Production activities are scheduled to start in December 2023. Enel Green Power Heterojunction solar module factory in southern Italy will be scaled up from 200MW to 3GW by mid-2024. MCPV The Portuguese company is planning a 300 MW fully integrated production line by mid-2022, and in total 15 GW for the future. Unigreen Energy Plans for 1.3GW for n-type wafers, 1GW for solar cells, and around 500MW for PV modules in the Russian exclave of Kaliningrad. Completion is scheduled for March 2023. REC 4 GW HJT module factory in France. The plant is scheduled to start up in 2022, with 2GW produced per year, before reaching its final capacity in 2025. Saule Technologies Inaugurated a perovskite pilot line cell factory in Wrocław, Poland, in 2021, and have started the work to construct an efficient industrial line with a capacity of 100MW. Solarge B.V. A 300MW factory is under development in 2022 in Eindhoven, the Netherlands. Kioto Energy It currently has 150MW of module production, but this capacity will increase to 450MW by the end of the year. Thereafter, there is a goal to add about 300MW of extra capacity every second year. Karpat Solar It has bought equipment from Mondragon and had plans to commission a 100MW module factory by the end of 2021 in Romania\n\nThe EU battery manufacturing industry is kicking off, and one of the goals is to establish a sustainable manufacturing landscape. How is the topic of building a sustainable solar manufacturing base being addressed?\n\nThe ESMC has been working on two fronts. Firstly, we have convinced the EU Commission about the need for a new Solar Strategy that addresses the situation of PV manufacturing. Regarding this, the acknowledgment of the need for strategic autonomy and technological sovereignty was completed in May 2021 in the updated EU New Industrial Strategy and accompanying documents by recognizing that building a sizeable EU PV manufacturing industry would also reduce supply disruptions and quality risks.\n\nSecondly, in the summer of 2021, ESMC initiated the IPCEI framework for PV manufacturing in cooperation with the partner organizations of the European Solar Initiative. The PVIPCE initiative is open for all European PV manufacturing industrial partners and research institutes dedicating their efforts to ensure the sustainable competitiveness of European PV manufacturing along all the full value chain.\n\nFifty members, comprising PV manufacturing companies and research institutes, from 14 European countries have already joined the initiative and work is ongoing in five IPCEI Project Groups.\n\nThe PV-IPCEI framework is dedicated to creating the demand for support incentives by securing at least 20GW of sustainably competitive PV manufacturing capacities along the full value chain by 2025 in the EU with a view to scaling it to 100GW by 2030, thus representing at least 15% of the future global market share.\n\nThe PV-IPCEI framework and the gigawatt-scale projects are targeted to boost PV manufacturing capacities in the EU by addressing strategic dependency issues and enabling breakthrough research innovations and infrastructure projects through the integrated industrial framework. The circularity of PV production and integrated PV solutions are essential components of the framework to ensure the sustainability and competitive advantage of the European PV upstream sector. Local PV production in Europe could benefit the green transformation and the whole economy as it has lower CO2 emissions and will reduce the import dependency on Asia."}...
Article 4: {'title': 'Mass-produced European solar panels on the horizon', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Solar cells and panels, or modules, are central to Europe’s commitment to using renewable energy to meet up to a third of its energy needs by 2030. But while the energy will be home produced, almost none of the necessary hardware is made in Europe.\n\nMost mass-produced cells and modules are from China, Taiwan and Malaysia, according to an EU report. The most efficient crystalline silicon solar-cell technology concepts on the market – interdigitated back-contacted (IBC) type solar cells – are produced by a small number of American and Asian firms.\n\nEurope is now closer to having its own version of this technology. The EU-funded NEXTBASE project has developed highly efficient IBC solar cells in the silicon heterojunction configuration (IBC-SHJ).\n\nThe NEXTBASE cells can convert 25.4 % of the solar energy they capture into power.\n\n‘This is a European record for an industrially feasible version of IBC-SHJ technology,’ says project coordinator Kaining Ding of the Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH research organisation in Germany.\n\n‘The current laboratory world record for a silicon solar cell is 26.7 %, which was also based on the IBC-SHJ concept but was very expensive to make. Our approach is close to the optimum level.’\n\nNEXTBASE researchers have also developed a prototype 4-cell x 4-cell solar module that has achieved 23.2 % efficiency, which is among the highest silicon module efficiencies ever reported. Encouraged by these results, the project team has developed a cost-effective manufacturing method that could produce such modules for under EUR 0.275/watt, enabling electricity generation at costs similar to generation with standard Asian-made technologies.\n\n‘It makes Europe competitive in solar cell manufacturing,’ says Ding.\n\nEnergy-tech innovations\n\nDing adds that the cells can make Europe’s energy more sustainable and secure. ‘The higher efficiency fosters the transition to renewables as it produces more energy from smaller areas than similar less-efficient cells,’ he explains, adding: ‘From an environmental and societal view, it is better to produce locally.’\n\nThe IBC-SHJ technology is key to the impressive energy conversion rate. Metallic contacts in standard mass-produced solar technology are on the front and back, wasting the solar energy that is blocked by the metal on the front. In contrast, back-contacted cells have all the connections at the back, so that they can capture solar energy across their entire front surface, in addition to being aesthetically pleasing.\n\nExisting IBC-type modules sell only to a premium market and are expensive to make, according to Ding. The 14 industry and research partners in the NEXTBASE consortium changed designs and processes for the silicon wafers, the cells and the modules in this technology to make them both more efficient and more cost-effective.\n\nDing explains that IBC-SHJ cells have complicated structures. ‘There was no cost-competitive industrial way to produce them.’\n\nNEXTBASE member Meyer Burger Research AG developed an automated process for producing the cells cheaply. ‘This process was very successful and simple,’ says Ding.\n\nPilot preparations\n\nDing believes that NEXTBASE can increase manufacturing and consumer interest in European photovoltaic technology and make IBC-SHJ modules more attractive to consumers. ‘The results are leading to commercialisation of high-efficiency PV modules based on next-generation c-Si solar cells. Without EU funding, the partners would not have worked together that closely,’ says Ding. ‘Everyone has an active interest in doing the work, even beyond the project.’\n\nThe next step will be to demonstrate that the NEXTBASE cell can work in larger modules and to industrialise production. The partners are planning a project for a pilot line, led by Meyer Burger Research AG, which now has a patent on the cell.\n\nHowever, scientific information about the project’s innovations can be accessed on the NEXTBASE website, including its cost and life-cycle impact analysis, allowing other projects and businesses to develop additional next-generation solar technology in Europe.'}...
Article 5: {'title': 'The weekend read: EU solar manufacturing – The time is now', 'published_date': '2022-03-12 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'From pv magazine 03/2022\n\nPV veterans will remember with a heavy heart the relatively recent decimation of the continent’s manufacturing landscape, after Asian competitors outpriced and out supplied their European peers at eyewatering speed. However, as Europe remains one of the largest solar markets globally, deployment levels continue to ramp up, and sustainability issues come to the fore, calls for meaningful domestic manufacturing capacity to be re-erected have become increasingly loud over the past few years, and it appears that in 2022 they may begin to be answered.\n\nThe SolarPower Europe (SPE) trade group is one of many organizations determined to re-establish a homegrown solar manufacturing landscape. In a recent op-ed on pv-magazine.com, CEO Walburga Hemetsberger stated that the association envisions 20GW of PV production in Europe by 2025, covering the entire value chain, from polysilicon to modules. “This is the objective we set for the European Solar Initiative, an industrial alliance we launched in February this year [2021], which facilitates the redevelopment of industrial projects in Europe,” she wrote. As she pointed out, however, manufacturers must establish gigawatt-scale fabs to be cost competitive.\n\nState of play\n\nIn July 2021, German research body the Fraunhofer Institute of Solar Energy Systems (ISE) released its “Photovoltaics Report,” which details the current state of European crystalline silicon PV manufacturing, as of the end of 2020. Looking at the map, while solar-grade polysilicon production capacity is relatively well established, the rest of the supply chain has a way to go if it is to achieve a meaningful share.\n\nIndeed, according to the chart, Europe had 22.1GW of polysilicon production capacity in operation, but just 1.25GW of solar wafer production capacity, 650MW of solar cell capacity, and 6.75GW of solar module production capacity.\n\nLast April, the European Solar Manufacturing Council (ESMC), an association of European manufacturers and research institutes, said that at least 75% of PV demand in Europe should be covered by domestic production, while two-thirds of PV products produced in Europe should be exported.\n\nThis would mean building up 60GW of manufacturing capacity on the continent by 2026 – three times what SPE is calling for. The current trade deficit of €10.5 billion ($11.8 billion) in solar cells and modules could be converted into around €50 billion of PV production on the continent, said the council, which would create around 178,000 new jobs in Europe.\n\nDecarbonize Europe - Green light to new avenues for solar and storage pv magazine virtual Roundtables Europe 2022 will address European decarbonization for the acceleration of the continent’s energy transition. Solar and energy storage will remain central to the discussion, but we will also look across sectors to explore how they can be effectively electrified or supplied with clean energy. Join the event on June 28 & 29 for free.\n\nOf the €723.8 billion the European Union wants to provide through its post-pandemic reconstruction program – the Recovery and Resilience Facility (RRF) – the ESMC says that €20 billion should be used to shore up the European PV industry. In a report issued in late December, it wrote that “to benefit from the support of the RRF, EU member states must submit recovery and resilience plans (RRPs), with the reforms and investments to be implemented by the end of 2026 … In ESMCs RRP evaluation effort, a total of €477 million have been identified as direct support for PV manufacturing. They consist of both loans and grants to establish or strengthen the PV value chain in Italy, Romania, and Croatia.”\n\nItaly is said to hold the largest direct RRP support for solar PV manufacturing, with €400 million dedicated to help reach the national target of 2GW annual manufacturing capacity by December 2025, said ESMC, while in Romania, €50 million has been allocated to develop 200MW of PV production capacity, and in Croatia, €26.5 million has been dedicated to the development of environmentally friendly production processes, including PV manufacturing.\n\nRamping up\n\nSome significant steps were made in 2021 to ramp volumes up, predominantly in Germany, with Switzerland-based Meyer Burger Technology AG opening a 400MW module and a 400MW cell factory at two separate locations in Germany last March for its heterojunction products. Following financing in July 2021 to accelerate its production capacities, this year is expected to be a “ramp-up year” with plans to increase its annual European cell production to 1.4GW and module production to 1GW by the end of 2022.\n\nThe UK’s Oxford PV also completed the build-out of its 100MW Brandenburg fab for its crystalline silicon heterojunction/perovskite tandem PV cells last July. It too expects the line to start full production in 2022 and CEO Frank P. Averdung told pv magazine at the time that it is in the “final stages” of a funding round that will allow the company to expand beyond the initial 100MW line up to gigawatt scale. “We hope we will be able to communicate the closure of the funding very soon,” he said.\n\nMeanwhile, in a recently announced partnership, Sonnenstromfabrik (CS Wismar GmbH) is expanding its 200MW module manufacturing operations in Wismar with the addition of a new 300MW line. The German company will use REC Group’s award-winning and patented half-cut cell and twin module and junction box design for the manufacture of two new PERC module products utlizing large format wafers.\n\nAnd on the wafer front, another German company, Fraunhofer ISE spinoff NexWafe GmbH – which manufactures high-efficiency monocrystalline silicon kerfless wafers – is gearing up to start commercial production this year, following an injection of €32 million in 2021, €25 million of which came from Indian conglomerate Reliance Industries Limited. In addition to manufacturing in Germany, Reliance will be granted access to NexWafe’s patented technology to utilize in its planned gigawatt manufacturing facility in India.\n\nWhile there are many plans taking place in Germany, Italy is also a hot spot for PV manufacturing, as the EMSC mentioned. Last November, renewable energy company and PV module manufacturer Enel Green Power (EGP), a unit of Italian power utility Enel, secured an undisclosed sum from the European Union to scale up its 200MW heterojunction cell and module factory in Catania to 3GW.\n\nSpeaking to pv magazine this January, new EGP CEO Salvatore Bernabei said the company is “planning to start the works for the enlargement of the factory soon. We will add a new building close to the existing one.” The factory is expected to begin manufacturing activities by the end of 2023 and to reach full capacity by mid-2024.\n\nA month later, Enel announced that Italian engineering company Comal is planning a 1GW solar tracker manufacturing fab in the power company’s Montalto di Castro power plant in Italy. The new factory – “Tracker Sun Hunter” – will see Comal manufacture trackers across an area of over 30,000 square meters inside Enel’s plant which is no longer used for energy generation.\n\nPopular content\n\nIn France, REC Group said in November 2020 that it is planning to build a 4GW PV module factory in the northwestern region of Moselle. Work was expected to commence this year; however, delays have seen this pushed back. In a statement released in June 2021, the company said, “REC Solar France teams and partners remain mobilized and are working hand in hand to bring the project to a successful conclusion as soon as possible.”\n\nAccording to the initial announcement, everything will be done on-site including the production of cells, assembly of modules, quality control, receipt of raw materials and shipment of finished products.\n\nSustainable path\n\nAs mentioned in the February edition of pv magazine (pp.74-77), Europe is also on a mission to establish itself as a key manufacturing base for batteries to support both the growth of electric vehicles and stationary storage projects. Over the past six years, ambitious plans have been announced to achieve this goal, with the latest predictions suggesting that 35 gigafactories will be operational by 2035.\n\nOne of the key priorities is to build a sustainable manufacturing industry. This is also vital for the solar value chain and something that is being taken seriously. As pv magazine said in the third quarter of 2020, as part of the UP Initiative’s Circular Manufacturing quarterly theme, the creation of a circular PV economy is an EU priority under its proposed Green Deal.\n\nFor example, the Circusol project, which stands for Circular Business Models, is an Innovation Action project funded by the European Commission’s Horizon 2020 program. It seeks not only to unearth new business opportunities, like solar as a service, but also to look at the redesign and recyclability of solar products, among other issues. A part of this consortium has seen Lithuanian module maker SoliTek investigate barriers and opportunities related to solar module circularity, to propose alternative design options. pv magazine will publish the results of this investigation during the second quarter.\n\nStating that now is the time to reinvest in the European manufacturing industry and take advantage of the TW-scale opportunities ahead, Germany’s Fraunhofer ISE established the Green Manufacturing Consortium in 2019. It is a German publicly funded project, comprising 20 industrial partners, four institutes and two industry associations, including First Solar, Meyer Burger, Total, Wacker, VDMA, Oxford PV, and Von Ardenne.\n\nThe objective is to develop an “economic-ecological evaluation methodology for a sustainable future factory for the production of innovative PV modules,” Jochen Rentsch, said head of the department production technology division photovoltaics at Fraunhofer ISE, in 2020.\n\nThe overarching goal of the project is to develop an economic-ecological evaluation methodology for a sustainable future factory – 10GW in size and easily scalable beyond that – to produce innovative PV modules. “Via a comprehensive energy and material flow model of scaled and vertically integrated PV fabs we will simulate changes in production capacity, factory layout, supply systems, production facilities and processes as well as recycling of materials through recycling processes and other value-added stages,” explained Rentsch.\n\nAt the time, Fraunhofer ISE Director Andreas Bett said reestablishing a European PV manufacturing market represents a “big opportunity” to ensure energy security by reducing dependency on imports, lowering costs, and addressing sustainability. “Why transport large and heavy PV modules the long distance from Asia and cause CO2 emissions and added cost? For example, module costs of €0.20/W can be soon realized, and transport costs from China to Europe can be up to €0.025/W,” he wrote.\n\nSustainability is also a key priority for both REC Group and Sonnenstromfabrik. Indeed, talking about the recently announced partnership, managing director of the latter, Bernhard Weilharter, said that producing low-carbon products is a central aim for the company. The journey started in 2016 when Sonnenstromfabrik began supplying the French market with certified low carbon modules. It now completes life cycle assessments for all its products, and in some markets it also secures an Eco Passport to back its environmental credentials.\n\nMeanwhile, REC Group not only produces its wafers in Norway using hydro energy, but it also focuses on upcycling kerf via a “unique new kerf processing technology” – during the standard wafer slicing process, around 30% of the silicon remains as waste, or kerf – to reuse it in cells and modules, said Agnieszka Schulze head of global PR at REC Solar EMEA GmbH. It further produces “polysilicon with the lowest carbon footprint,” she added.\n\nDecarbonization plans\n\nAfter a period of stagnation, the European PV industry is again stepping onto the world manufacturing stage. Thus, pv magazine will spend the second quarter looking at the companies acting to establish PV fabs, particularly those which are doing so in a sustainable manner.\n\nIn addition to revisiting the circular manufacturing projects highlighted in the third quarter of 2020, we will be looking at the challenges European manufacturers face, the advantages of producing Made in Europe solar products, and what needs to be done to convince political leaders and other decision-makers to jump on board.\n\npv magazine sees this transition as being crucial if Europe is to achieve its decarbonization plans in a sustainable way. This will therefore be a topic that will be addressed via the UP Initiative, but also at its virtual Roundtables Europe event on June 28 and 29. For more information, contact up@pv-magazine.com.'}...
