Article 1: {'title': 'QuantumScape to open second pilot plant', 'published_date': '2021-03-25 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Solid-state battery specialist QuantumScape plans to issue 13 million new shares. The expected proceeds of $859 million are to be invested in the company’s planned pilot plant and in the joint venture with Volkswagen. In connection with the joint venture, there is also talk of a second pilot plant.\n\nSpecifically, QuantumScape intends to use the funds from the share issue (equivalent to around 728 million euros) to more than double the capacities of the QS-0 pilot plant in San José, California, which was announced in February. The solid-state battery specialist also plans to invest part of the proceeds in its joint venture with Volkswagen. In this context, the US-Americans are aiming for another pilot plant called QS-1 with a capacity of 1 GWh, which will later be successively expanded to a total capacity of 21 GWh for series production. It is not yet clear where this plant will be built.\n\nIncidentally, QuantumScape does not mention the new information on the pilot plants named QS-0 and QS-1 in its press release on the share issue; it is hidden in a long stock exchange notice, the “SEC Report”.\n\nQuantumScape made the plans for a pilot plant in San José public a few weeks ago when it announced its financial results. The plant, called QS-0, will be able to produce more than 100,000 samples of solid-state cells per year, the announcement said. An expansion of capacity by more than double would thus lead to an output of more than 200,000 samples. As is the aim for the QS-1 pilot plant, which is still without a location, pilot cells are to be produced first in San José and later cells ready for series production. In concrete terms, the latter should be possible in San José from 2023.\n\nIn February, it was still said that QuantumScape wanted to spend between 230 and 290 million US dollars (about 190 to 240 million euros) in the current year to continue the development of its solid-state battery cells and to build the QS-0 factory. After the new announcements from the stock exchange release and the new share issue, these statements may already be outdated. QuantumScape had already received fresh capital at the end of 2020 through its IPO itself and last summer through an investment of 200 million euros from Volkswagen, among others. The Wolfsburg-based company now owns a third of the California-based company.\n\nWhile QuantumScape remained silent about its technology for a long time, the company presented performance data of prototype cells for the first time in December 2020. Since then, it has become a little clearer where the journey is headed: According to the Americans, the technology can help improve the range of electric cars by up to 80 per cent compared to today’s lithium-ion cells.\n\nThe published results with single-layer pouch cells suggest that QuantumScape’s battery can be quickly charged to 80 per cent capacity in 15 minutes. Alongside this, the developer promises a remaining battery capacity of more than 80 per cent after 800 cycles, which means that “hundreds of thousands of kilometres can be covered”. In addition, the solid-state battery is said to be extremely fireproof and to function on a broad temperature continuum without a major drop in performance – even in cold temperatures as low as minus 30 degrees.\n\nQuantumscape claims it has succeeded in optimising the lithium metal solid-state battery through ten years of development work in such a way that all aspects from high energy density, fast-charging capability and long service life to safety and realistic operating temperature are guaranteed. Until now, the low cycle stability has been considered a major weakness of solid-state batteries. The core of the QuantumScape technology is a ceramic separator, which is supposed to remedy exactly this. In addition, the solid-state battery does not have a classic anode. This is formed from pure lithium metal as soon as the battery is charged.\n\nAccording to the Californian company, the cells tested were single-layer pouch cells with “thick cathodes” (>3mAh/cm2), which are analogous to the cathodes of conventional batteries. During the presentation of the test results, company boss Jagdeep Singh said that further development work will consist of converting the single-layer cells into multi-layer cells and then preparing them for mass production. This should start in the second half of 2024 with the help of Volkswagen. The Wolfsburg company will then have the right to become the first customer for the new batteries based on solid-state technology.\n\nWith reporting by Cora Werwitzke, France.\n\ninsideevs.com, electrek.co, techcrunch.com, ir.quantumscape.com, sec.report'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Building a competitive solar-PV supply chain in Europe', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Europe has committed to being a climate-neutral society by 2050. This is an ambitious target, which has been complicated by the energy crisis and the Ukraine conflict, as well as efforts to replace the import of Russian gas.\n\nShare About the authors This article is a collaborative effort by Alberto Bettoli, Tomas NauclÃ©r, Thomas Nyheim, Andreas Schlosser, and Christian Staudt representing views from McKinseyâ\x80\x99s Electric Power and Natural Gas Practice.\n\nEurope is planning a major ramp-up of solar-photovoltaic (PV)-based electricity to address its energy challenges, which include meeting its climate ambitions, managing a large part of its electrification, decarbonizing the electricity grid, and becoming less reliant on others. As part of its â\x80\x9cEU solar energy strategy,â\x80\x9d the region has announced a 750 GWDC target of installed solar-PV capacity by 2030â\x80\x94up from 224 GW of installed capacity in 2022 (Exhibit 1). This represents a considerable step up in annual installations, going from some 26 GW in 2021 to around 70 GW a year in the second half of this decade. Germany alone aims to install 215 GW by 2030, adding 160 GW of new capacity on top of the current 58 GW, almost scaling the market by a factor of four.\n\n1\n\nWith these ambitions in place, Europe would maintain its position as one of the major solar-PV markets in the world, alongside China, India, and the United States.\n\nEuropeâ\x80\x99s supply challenge: Itâ\x80\x99s all imported\n\nThis ambition faces a potential supply resilience risk: Europe currently relies almost entirely on imports from one country for the solar PV panels it needs. China dominates the solar-PV supply chain with almost 95 percent of the worldâ\x80\x99s wafer production (Exhibit 2). It is home to the top five companies across each step of the value chain, except Germanyâ\x80\x99s Wacker Chemie EG in PV grade polysilicon.\n\n2\n\nChinaâ\x80\x99s solar-PV industryâ\x80\x99s scale-up has been rapidâ\x80\x94from zero to 300 GW capacity in some 15 years. While European companies initially led the industry, Chinese solar-PV companies, in many regards, today dominate both manufacturing at scale and deploying new technologies, supporting major solar-PV ecosystems built around industry hubs. Specialized companies deliver everything from ingot pullers to diamond wire saws and solar PV glass to aluminum frames. In this way, the Chinese solar-PV industry has made the technology the cheapest renewable energy source in many markets. Prior to recent price increases (due to the effects of the COVID-19 pandemic and supply-chain bottlenecks), the price of solar PV only went one wayâ\x80\x94down. The levelized cost of energy (LCOE), a measure for the lifetime cost of solar PV including both capital and operating expenditure, has fallen some 80 percent since 2010.\n\nWhile European markets have enjoyed the benefits of falling solar-PV costs, the geopolitical context is evolving. The Ukraine conflict has exposed the risk of relying on imports for critical energy, and Europe is becoming increasingly sensitive to the potential supply-chain risks for solar-PV products. Labor concerns in the production of polysilicon have created additional worries for European customers, particularly with regard to ESG and human rightsâ\x80\x99 issues.\n\nIn response to these rising challenges, the EU has begun its solar-PV strategy to reestablish a viable PV manufacturing industry, with the EUâ\x80\x99s Energy Commissioner stating that the EU will do â\x80\x9cwhatever it takesâ\x80\x9d to succeed. In light of this, the Commission formally launched the Solar Photovoltaic Industry Alliance in December 2022 to develop a European solar-PV ecosystem that will secure and diversify supplies of solar PV products. The EU has already defined a target of 30 GW a year of PV manufacturing across the entire supply chain by 2025.\n\nBut, in reality, what will this takeâ\x80\x94and can European companies really be competitive with the industry leaders?\n\nEuropean companies are starting to respond\n\nAlthough it is currently small, the European solar PV industry does not have to start entirely from scratch (Exhibit 3). Europe has some 6 to 8 GW of module capacity, and approximately 1 GW of cell and 2 GW of wafer capacityâ\x80\x94however, this is still less than 1 percent of global capacity. Wacker in Germany is the only European top-five global company with approximately 20 GW of polysilicon production in Europe.\n\n3\n\nMany European companies have started ramping up or have expansion plans in motion. In Turkey, Kalyon PV has boosted its 1.2 GW integrated ingot-to-module facility. In Sicily, Enelâ\x80\x99s 3Sun is building a 3 GW facility that will produce heterojunction (HJT) cell technology modules and, over time, tandem cells (traditional polysilicon-based PV cells coupled with so-called perovskite solar-PV cells), with a roadmap to more than 30 percent cell efficiency. Similarly, Meyer Burger in Switzerland, the former equipment manufacturer, is aiming for 4.2 GW by 2025 (also using HJT cell technology), and Norwegian ingot and wafer producers, NorSun and Norwegian Crystals, plan around 4 GW new capacity. New technology companies like Nexwafe and Oxford PV also aim to have GW-sized capacities by 2024 to 2025.\n\nSo far there are few current Chinese solar PV companies that have decided to establish manufacturing in Europeâ\x80\x94Chinese leading companies would likely consider doing so if it supported their market positions. These companies would bring both capabilities and already-scaled production systems. However, given the strong platforms in China, they may enter with a minimal approach, limiting European production to modules, or cells and modules, and source as much as possible from their existing Chinese-supplier networks. Further, given their limited experience in building and operating factories in Europe, they may look for European partners and also face many of the same scaling and ramp-up challenges as European companies do.\n\nA path to competitiveness\n\nOur analysis suggests that the costs of solar-PV manufacturing in Europe at scale for the full value chain will be at a 20 to 25 percent disadvantage against current lowest cost levelsâ\x80\x94if scale and excellence effects have been achieved. When assuming that large scale is achieved, European companies will still be structurally disadvantaged by higher labor, material, utilities, and capital costs. This is based on the cost of power before the price hikes that European industrial players have experienced over the past yearâ\x80\x94this means that the current power prices in Europe further lower their cost competitiveness, especially in the energy-intensive upstream parts of the value chain.\n\nHowever, there are several factors that point to a potential path to competitiveness for leading European solar-PV companies (Exhibit 4).\n\n4\n\nScale and excellence: European companies (or companies that are setting up manufacturing capacity in Europe) will only succeed if they are able to grow fast to reach large scale, while at the same time being highly stringent in capital and operational excellence. While pinpointing exact scale thresholds is difficult, on plant level we observe that leading players typically have 3 to 5 GW at cell and module level, and around 10 GW for ingot and wafer, and polysilicon. The scale levels have consistently increased over time as the industry has matured. Further, the leading players have production systems consisting of close to 100 GW capacity on company level, and operate more than ten plants across their production systems. In short, without large scale, European players will have a hard time to succeed in being competitive. Our analysis show that around half the initial cost gap (about 4 c/W) to Chinese companies will depend on reaching sufficient scale.\n\nA key factor in scaling the industry is also to build a viable ecosystem of suppliers and equipment providers. Without sufficient scale, the industry will not spur the necessary investments and competition among sub-suppliers and technology partners.\n\nSimilarly, leading players will need to have laser-sharp focus to ensure cost out and implement continual improvements to build viable long-term competitiveness. This includes higher levels of automation and building a competitive supplier network that shares the same commitment to aggressive scaling and cost competitiveness.\n\nDeployment of leading technology: European players could enhance their competitiveness by being early adopters of new technologies. Most importantly, higher cell efficiencies and more power per module could drive down the cost per watt correspondingly. And, as many cost drivers are linked to units produced, higher efficient cells will lower the structural cost disadvantages that European companies faceâ\x80\x94Enel and Meyer Burger are already leading the way to implement HJT and also develop tandem cell technologies. In addition, European companies have the opportunity to be leaders in implementing new production processes and product technologies and, in this way, will likely build long-term competitiveness. However, as the ramp-up is needed on relatively short notice, it is unlikely that next generation technologies alone will close the gap.\n\nConsumersâ\x80\x99 willingness to pay: European customers will, to some degree, likely be prepared to pay a premium for European-made panels. From interviews conducted over the last six months and from comparing prices, customers show a willingness to pay 10 to 20 percent premiums for European-made products with full traceability. Statements from industry leaders include, â\x80\x9cThere is a premium for better ESG. We have seen players pay 2 to 3 c/Wp.â\x80\x9d And, â\x80\x9cIf European players can offer PV modules with good warranties, a lower carbon footprint, and delivery security, I think that utilities would pay about a $2 c/Wp premium.â\x80\x9d\n\nIn future, this trend is likely only to strengthen. As one expert put it, â\x80\x9cThe importance of ESG is picking up, especially when banks are involved. There is a cost difference in complete ESG transparency of 1.3 to 1.5 c/Wp.â\x80\x9d Successful European companies will need to build quality products with strong brand positions for which customers are willing to pay premium prices. These companies could develop compelling value propositions that include sustainability and low-carbon footprint, full value-chain traceability, as well as excellent product quality, output performance, and bankability. Further, as the costs of solar PV have come down as far as they have, the marginal extra cost of paying a premium will, for many customers, be secondary to other purchasing factors. However, energy-intensive players, especially large ones, will still potentially be sensitive to these smaller differences, which emphasizes the need to close the structural gap as much as possible.\n\nThe cost of carbon: European companies can achieve a lower embedded carbon footprint than the current supply chainâ\x80\x94around 40 percent lower in the EU compared to modules produced in China. Europe is in the process of implementing carbon border mechanisms to avoid carbon leakage, as well as considering carbon contracts for difference. Assuming a carbon price range of $60-90 per ton and 330kg CO 2 equivalent per kilowatt peak lower emissions for an EU made panel, the impact would be 2.0 to 3.0 c/W, with potential higher range impact in markets with CO 2 -linked incentives like France.\n\nThese levers point to a potential pathway toward competitiveness for European businesses with the right approach and mindset. Yet, while the direction of the pathway is clear, there are multiple challenges to overcome. Rebuilding an end-to-end European supply chain including material suppliers and equipment providers will not be easy (Exhibit 5). Module manufacturers will likely be hard pressed to find capable and cost-competitive regional suppliers of glass, backsheets, junction boxes, and framesâ\x80\x94at least in the near term. Similarly, finding European manufacturing equipment suppliers and technology partners is possible but will require additional effort to scale and higher initial costs as the industry is currently sub-scale. For ingot and wafer, the dependency on non-European supply is even more pronounced, and key components such as ingot pullers and suppliers of crucibles, hot zones, and diamond wire saws are today entirely sourced from Asia. Any fast scaling of a European industry, by necessity, requires close collaboration with global suppliers.\n\n5\n\nA level playing field in an uneven world\n\nAs European companies look to invest in rebuilding solar-PV manufacturing, the market design and framework within which it can operate is vital. Indeed, the market design is evolving fast in other regions. There are significant structural differences between the key solar-PV regionsâ\x80\x94China, Europe, India, and the United States. In particular, the United States recently passed the Inflation Reduction Act (IRA) in August 2022, which includes tax incentives for solar-panel manufacturers.\n\nThis United States support scheme is focused on encouraging investment in new solar-PV manufacturing capacity. On a fully localized basis (the IRA plus other local incentive programs), the direct production support is around 12 to 20 c/W until 2030, after which it reduces by 25 percent per yearâ\x80\x94in other words, federal government covers a large share of the cost, and will hypothetically make the US the cheapest cost region for solar PV in the world. In addition, the United States already puts import tariffs on cells and modules made in China, and partially extended these in December 2022 to manufacturing hubs in Cambodia, Malaysia, Thailand, and Vietnam to select suppliers. The United States is also considering extending these tariffs to put special duties on the import of Chinese wafersâ\x80\x94alongside the existing rules that ban the import of Chinese forced-labor products, which are already creating high barriers for Chinese solar-PV companies to sell in the United States.\n\nThe overall effect of these measures has been immediate, with more than 30 GW of new capacity revealed across more than ten new announcements in the short time since the IRA was passed.\n\nIn Europe, the EU Innovation Fund and regional programs can provide grants and recently reopened for bids to allocate â\x82¬25 billion toward 2030 to low-carbon projects. Traditionally the fund focuses on innovative projects at pre-commercial scale, which are not entirely fit for the purpose of stimulating scaling of a relatively mature solar-PV industry. However, flagship projects, like Enelâ\x80\x99s 3Sun, have so far received â\x82¬118 million in EU grants (in addition to national grants), covering some 20 percent of the overall capital cost. Still, the impact of such upfront grants is relatively modest, especially when compared to the IRA, since depreciation costs for cell and module plants are less than 10 percent of unit costs (Exhibit 6).\n\n6\n\nCreating a level playing field is challenging under these shifting circumstances. The EU is developing measures such as a CO 2 tax and eco-labeling that are expected to be favorable for European-based companies. To trigger broad and large-scale investments, however, further targeted market design measures may be required to entice investments. Indeed, there are already indications of solar-PV companies refocusing investments from Europe to other regionsâ\x80\x94REC Solar recently announced it is canceling its plans for a 4 GW French plant, despite being selected in July to receive an EU grant.\n\nPotential unlocks\n\nFor European-based companies to succeed in building feasible, long-term competitive positions in the global solar-PV supply chain and enable a viable European industry, the success formula will likely combine highly ambitious and cost-competitive players, supported by the right market design especially in the critical scale-up phase. With this in mind, we have identified six potential unlocks:\n\nLeading ambitious industrial frontrunners who are willing to move first and deploy risk capital at pace, using the best available technology across the value chain and with long-term global ambitions to succeed. A laser-sharp focus on cost-out performance through accelerated scale-up and world-leading ambitions for capital and operational excellence, combined with a compelling customer value proposition (especially cost, quality, and sustainability). A sophisticated industrial approach to continually implement new technologies to enable and build competitive leadership. This will involve close collaboration with technology companies, equipment providers, and technical research institutes. An orchestration and coordination across the value chain to de-risk investment cases and scale in lock-step. Leading downstream customers need to be prepared to de-risk upstream investments (and unlock financing) by committing demand at the right price signal to spur investments across the value chainâ\x80\x94with a high degree of transparency on plans and the need to scale in tandem. Systematic efforts by companies to build a competitive ecosystem of sub-suppliers and equipment partners in coordination with others to support new investments. Such an ecosystem of suppliers should be able to extract cost synergies and drive down input costs to support a viable industry. National- and EU-level regulators that create a market design framework that encourages and de-risks early investments in Europe, especially until minimum scale thresholds are achieved, and with a scale and scope that attracts the necessary investments in a global context.\n\nEuropean solar-PV companies have been through a solar-PV boom and bust before that makes many stakeholders wary. While there is a potential pathway to competitiveness, companies producing solar-PV products in the region will need bold aspirations and to turn every stone to become competitive. European companies will need to build an entire industry ecosystem to be truly viable in the global market in the long termâ\x80\x94as Chinese companies have done. This will require major efforts by industry leaders, supported by customers, end users, and policy makers.'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'QuantumScape considers cell production in Salzgitter', 'published_date': '2021-05-16 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'QuantumScape could produce solid-state batteries in the German city of Salzgitter with Volkswagen in the future. According to an agreement between the two companies, the location for the planned pilot plant with VW is to be determined this year.\n\nAccording to the US battery specialist, Salzgitter is currently being considered for the pilot plant location. The plant, called QS-1, will initially have a capacity of 1 GWh, which will later be successively expanded to a total capacity of 21 GWh for series production.\n\nDespite the announcement by its cooperation partner, Volkswagen says that no final decision has yet been made on the construction of a pilot plant for solid fuel cells in Salzgitter. “This technology of the future can only be built up in Germany with state support – because without such support Salzgitter has little chance in European and international comparison,” says a VW spokesperson. “The final decision on further steps towards a solid fuel cell pilot plant will be made in the fourth quarter at the latest.”\n\nAt QuantumScape, things sound much more optimistic. “Our goal has been to bring our solid-state lithium-metal batteries to market as soon as possible,” says Jagdeep Singh, CEO and co-founder of QuantumScape. “This joint venture brings together QuantumScape’s core battery technology with Volkswagen’s deep understanding of high-volume, high-quality production, and maximizes our ability to bring this technology into industrial production.”\n\nAlthough the agreement was officially with Volkswagen Group of America, the fact that the Salzgitter site is being considered makes it clear that the group’s headquarters in Wolfsburg is the driver behind the cooperation.\n\nSalzgitter is already a very important location for Wolfsburg’s battery plans: it is home to the pilot production facility for battery cells that will open in 2019. This project was initially driven forward with their battery partner Northvolt. After the Wolfsburg company announced at Power Day in March just passed that it would develop Salzgitter into one of the six European battery factories, it became clear that VW is now pushing ahead with the project alone. Salzgitter is also home to the pilot recycling plant for battery materials that opened in January 2021.\n\nIn February, QuantumScape announced the construction of a pilot plant called QS-0 in San José, California. At the end of March, QuantumScape announced in a stock offering that it would build a pilot plant with VW. A few weeks later, Volkswagen invested a further $100 million in the battery specialist, as QuantumScape’s cells had met contractually agreed requirements.'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'Mass-produced European solar panels on the horizon', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Solar cells and panels, or modules, are central to Europe’s commitment to using renewable energy to meet up to a third of its energy needs by 2030. But while the energy will be home produced, almost none of the necessary hardware is made in Europe.\n\nMost mass-produced cells and modules are from China, Taiwan and Malaysia, according to an EU report. The most efficient crystalline silicon solar-cell technology concepts on the market – interdigitated back-contacted (IBC) type solar cells – are produced by a small number of American and Asian firms.\n\nEurope is now closer to having its own version of this technology. The EU-funded NEXTBASE project has developed highly efficient IBC solar cells in the silicon heterojunction configuration (IBC-SHJ).\n\nThe NEXTBASE cells can convert 25.4 % of the solar energy they capture into power.\n\n‘This is a European record for an industrially feasible version of IBC-SHJ technology,’ says project coordinator Kaining Ding of the Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH research organisation in Germany.\n\n‘The current laboratory world record for a silicon solar cell is 26.7 %, which was also based on the IBC-SHJ concept but was very expensive to make. Our approach is close to the optimum level.’\n\nNEXTBASE researchers have also developed a prototype 4-cell x 4-cell solar module that has achieved 23.2 % efficiency, which is among the highest silicon module efficiencies ever reported. Encouraged by these results, the project team has developed a cost-effective manufacturing method that could produce such modules for under EUR 0.275/watt, enabling electricity generation at costs similar to generation with standard Asian-made technologies.\n\n‘It makes Europe competitive in solar cell manufacturing,’ says Ding.\n\nEnergy-tech innovations\n\nDing adds that the cells can make Europe’s energy more sustainable and secure. ‘The higher efficiency fosters the transition to renewables as it produces more energy from smaller areas than similar less-efficient cells,’ he explains, adding: ‘From an environmental and societal view, it is better to produce locally.’\n\nThe IBC-SHJ technology is key to the impressive energy conversion rate. Metallic contacts in standard mass-produced solar technology are on the front and back, wasting the solar energy that is blocked by the metal on the front. In contrast, back-contacted cells have all the connections at the back, so that they can capture solar energy across their entire front surface, in addition to being aesthetically pleasing.\n\nExisting IBC-type modules sell only to a premium market and are expensive to make, according to Ding. The 14 industry and research partners in the NEXTBASE consortium changed designs and processes for the silicon wafers, the cells and the modules in this technology to make them both more efficient and more cost-effective.\n\nDing explains that IBC-SHJ cells have complicated structures. ‘There was no cost-competitive industrial way to produce them.’\n\nNEXTBASE member Meyer Burger Research AG developed an automated process for producing the cells cheaply. ‘This process was very successful and simple,’ says Ding.\n\nPilot preparations\n\nDing believes that NEXTBASE can increase manufacturing and consumer interest in European photovoltaic technology and make IBC-SHJ modules more attractive to consumers. ‘The results are leading to commercialisation of high-efficiency PV modules based on next-generation c-Si solar cells. Without EU funding, the partners would not have worked together that closely,’ says Ding. ‘Everyone has an active interest in doing the work, even beyond the project.’\n\nThe next step will be to demonstrate that the NEXTBASE cell can work in larger modules and to industrialise production. The partners are planning a project for a pilot line, led by Meyer Burger Research AG, which now has a patent on the cell.\n\nHowever, scientific information about the project’s innovations can be accessed on the NEXTBASE website, including its cost and life-cycle impact analysis, allowing other projects and businesses to develop additional next-generation solar technology in Europe.'}...
