Article 1: {'title': 'Samsung SDI expands battery production in Hungary', 'published_date': '2021-02-24 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'The Korean battery cell manufacturer Samsung SDI has announced that it will invest the equivalent of around 740 million euros in the expansion of its battery factory in Göd, Hungary, near Budapest.\n\nThe factory, from which Samsung SDI supplies cells for BMW and Volkswagen, among others, currently has an annual capacity of 30 GWh and is expected to be able to produce over 40 GWh in the future. Samsung SDI had completed the construction of the factory in 2017. It is not clear from the South Korean media reports when the expansion is to be completed.\n\nWith the investment of around one trillion won, which is equivalent to a little more than 900 million US dollars or the aforementioned 740 million euros, the Korean company apparently hopes to expand its position in the electric car market in Europe. The investment is to be partly financed by a capital increase of the Hungarian subsidiary Samsung SDI Hungary Zrt, but also by loans.\n\nIn South Korea, an unnamed representative of Samsung SDI told the Reuters news agency that the manufacturer was also considering building a second plant in Hungary. However, a decision or even a timetable for the construction of such a factory had not yet been made. In addition to Hungary, Samsung SDI has plants in South Korea and China. Worldwide, Samsung SDI ranks fifth among battery cell manufacturers.\n\npulsenews.co.kr, koreaherald.com, reuters.com'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Samsung SDI plans to produce cylindrical battery cells in Hungary', 'published_date': '2023-01-12 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Samsung SDI is considering building a new battery cell factory in Hungary, according to Korean media. The plant is to supply BMW exclusively with round cells for the New Class electric cars and is to be built near Samsung SDI’s existing two battery factories in Göd.\n\nBMW is currently building an electric car plant in Debrecen, Hungary, where series production for the first all-electric New Class vehicle will start in 2025, flanked by a battery assembly line. CATL and Eve Energy, as well as Envision AESC, have so far been confirmed as suppliers of the round cells for the New Class vehicles that will roll off the production lines in Europe, China and the USA. Samsung SDI already supplies battery cells to BMW, but has not yet been officially confirmed as a supplier for the new round cells. However, Samsung SDI is indeed developing such cells.\n\nAccording to Business Korea, Samsung SDI in Hungary is considering setting up a joint venture for batteries with BMW. However, it would come as a surprise if the trio of suppliers actually became a quartet. In September, the Munich-based carmaker had officially announced that it would have the round cells for the New Class explicitly produced by three partners in a total of six factories. Through the partnerships, BMW wants to buy the battery cells where the production takes place (“local for local”).\n\nIn the USA, Envision AESC in South Carolina is to pull the strings. Eve Energy is currently expanding its production capacities in China, for example in Chengdu, Yuxi and Jingmen, so that a China focus is emerging with Eve. In August 2022, CATL announced the construction of a 100 GWh battery cell factory in Debrecen, Hungary, for European car manufacturers, and it stands to reason that, in addition to the confirmed major customer Mercedes-Benz, BMW will also be supplied from the factory. Eve Energy has also been linked to Debrecen – according to reports from the end of March 2022, Eve Energy signed a non-binding letter of intent with the local municipality to acquire 45 hectares in an industrial area in order to build a plant for the production of cylindrical cells there. Since then, however, nothing more has been heard of it.\n\nIn recent months there have been growing indications that BMW might change its battery strategy and switch to round cells. In November, the manufacturer clarified the situation: As previously leaked, the new round cells for the New Class will have a uniform diameter of 46 millimetres and different heights (format: 46XX). There will be two different heights (although BMW does not give any concrete millimetre specifications) and the module level will be omitted during installation. The round cells are “flexibly integrated into the installation space in a space-saving manner”. The storage system will play a supporting role in the body structure. In technical jargon, this battery concept is called “pack-to-open-body”. Samsung SDI is already developing such battery cells.\n\nIn the current generation of electric vehicles, the Munich company still relies on prismatic cells from suppliers such as CATL and Samsung SDI – for example in the i4, iX and i7. According to the manufacturer, the new round cells will “increase the energy density by more than 20 per cent, increase the charging speed by up to 30 per cent and improve the range by up to 30 per cent”.\n\nbusinesskorea.co.kr, english.chosun.com'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'Samsung to spend $1.5 billion on EV battery manufacturing in Europe', 'published_date': '2022-08-24 13:14:17+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': "Samsung seemingly has big plans for the electric vehicle market, and it should, given the looming 2035 ban on gas-powered cars. The Korean tech giant has become one of the major battery suppliers for the EV market, and the company plans to invest even more in the segment.\n\nSamsung SDI reportedly plans to make a 2 trillion won ($1.48 billion) investment to expand its electric vehicle battery plant located in Hungary. The plan was reportedly confirmed by SDI's board of directors (via Korea IT News).\n\nThe company aims to increase its EV battery production capacity to 1 million units, or 60GWh per year. Compared to what Samsung's battery plant in Hungary churns out now, the company may be looking at a 70-80% increase in production capacity.\n\nSamsung's largest single-scale investment in EV batteries\n\nAssuming that Samsung SDI goes on with its plan, market watchers say this will be the largest single-scale investment in EV batteries for the European continent.\n\nHowever, estimates suggest that, over the past two years, Samsung spend nearly 3 trillion won ($2.23) on its EV battery manufacturing infrastructure.\n\nOutside of Europe, Samsung is building a new EV battery mass-manufacturing plant in Malaysia to supply car companies like BMW. Furthermore, Samsung SDI recently established its first EV battery R&D center in the United States. The company said it wants to keep set up more R&D centers in various regions, “starting with the ones in the US and Europe.”"}...
Article 4: {'title': 'Europe’s gigafactory boom in full swing with another plant announcement', 'published_date': '2022-02-17 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': "In recent months, Europe has been shaping up as a hotspot of battery manufacturing activity with a flood of gigafactory announcements coming from incumbents and newcomers to the market. With a clear strategy outlined to reduce its dependence on Asian battery cell imports, Europe is set to host around 35 gigafactories by 2035, according to the latest predictions.\n\nThe newest project announcement has come from Anglo-Korean battery maker Eurocell, which yesterday said it will build its first European gigafab. The extraordinary aspect of Eurocell’s plan is that it promises to start manufacturing at scale within just 12 months, thanks to the company's “proven, production-ready technologies.”\n\nWith an initial £600 million (€716 million) investment planned in two phases, Eurocell intends to supply European energy storage, automotive, e-mobility and customer electronics industries. The first phase will begin producing battery cells at scale by early next year for existing customers, Eurocell announced. In parallel, a bespoke facility will be constructed on the same site capable of producing more than 40 million cells per year by 2025.\n\nEurocell says it is looking at potential sites for its European manufacturing base and will make a final choice depending on government support and investment. “We are actively seeking a European manufacturing base and are in advanced discussions with sites in the UK, Netherlands and Spain,” said the company's CEO for Europe, the Middle East and Africa, Recardo Bruins. “With the right level of central engagement and support we are keen to take advantage of the rapidly growing European market as quickly as possible.”\n\nIn return, the manufacturer said in a press release to announce the fab, the host country will benefit from “the creation of hundreds of direct and indirect jobs, transferring vital skills from Korean battery experts and boosting the economy in a strategic sector crucial to achieving Europe’s net zero ambitions.”\n\nEurocell has two product lines that it says can deliver better performance than conventional lithium-ion batteries. Its ultra-fast charging “UFC” battery is able to capture any input charge under any condition at a 10C rate, has a long cycle life of more than 5,000 cycles, and is 100% safe in the event of impact, penetration or shocks, so no there is no risk of thermal runaway and self-ignition, the company claims. The UFC batteries have a lithium-titanate-oxide anode which, according to Eurocell, allows for that long cycle life and a 25-year-plus lifespan, and a lithium-nickel-manganese-oxide cathode. The product's weak point is low energy density, which is why lithium-titanate batteries are usually deployed only in bulky vehicles, where space is less of an issue than it is in passenger cars.\n\nThe manufacturer's ultra-high capacity “UHC” battery excels at capacity, according to its developer, and is said to outperform conventional lithium-ion batteries by 150% by virtue of its silicone-graphite composite anode. That feature comes at a cost, however, and the UHC battery costs more than 30% more than conventional alternatives. Eurocell says its batteries have a wide operating temperature range, from -20 to 50 degrees Celsius, making them well-suited for use in extreme weather and without a grid network.\n\nPopular content\n\nEurocell is by no means alone in its ambition to secure a slice of the European battery market. According to data from the EU's important projects of common European interest (IPCEI) fund, which aims to promote critical projects including battery production in Europe, a massive build-up and expansion of energy storage production capacity is being planned.\n\nE-mobility: A greener road to transportation Urban transportation is key to modern civilization. But it has come at a cost, contributing to a dangerous carbon footprint, high levels of smog, a growing inequality gap, and the destruction of some of our most fragile environments. Thus, in the first quarter of this year, pv magazine’s UP Initiative will focus on the rise of e-mobility and how it can complement the renewable energy transition. Read our coverage here.\n\nThe annual production volume of lithium-ion cells in the EU's member states – plus Norway and EU accession state Serbia – amounted to around 35GWh in 2020, around 15% of the global total. That figure is expected to rise to 600-870GWh – 43% of the estimated world market – by the end of the decade.\n\nFirst movers\n\nThe companies leading the charge in Europe are Tesla, Northvolt, and LG Chem, according to Scottish consultancy Delta-EE, which has estimated they will supply 27% of the bloc's li-ion production capacity in Europe by 2030. In terms of where the factories will be built, Germany is the top location so far, with France and Italy expected to become the second and third biggest markets by 2030 in terms of annual manufacturing capacity, overtaking Hungary, which is currently Europe's second largest battery manufacturing state.\n\nWhile it is hoped enormous demand for li-ion cells in the automotive industry in the years ahead will be met through the planned expansion and development of production capacities, the supply of batteries will also hinge on sufficient availability of semiconductors and raw materials. The first noticeable deficits emerged for nickel last year and shortfalls of up to 50% in cobalt, copper, lithium and graphite are forecast for next year and 2024. As a result, US analyst BloombergNEF's recently published 2021 Battery Price Survey forecast an increase in li-ion cell prices this year after decades of declining prices.\n\n“To counteract the threat of raw material shortages, recycling capacities are being successively built up, the utilization of alternative raw material deposits is being evaluated, and research is being conducted on novel cell chemistries that use fewer or no critical raw materials,” the European Union's IPCEI fund said in its quarterly market analysis."}...
