Article 1: {'title': 'European Solar Initiative', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Solar Manufacturing Accelerator\n\nSolarPower Europe launched the “Solar Manufacturing Accelerator”, a platform aimed at accelerating the deployment of solar PV manufacturing projects in Europe to strengthen the EU’s leadership in Clean Energy Technologies and contribute to the re-industrialisation of Europe.\n\nThe ‘Solar Manufacturing Accelerator’ is an initiative coordinated by SolarPower Europe with the support of its strategic partners ESMC, ETIP-PV, IPVF and VDMA. It is open to all companies and organisations interested in developing or partnering on solar manufacturing projects.\n\nThe platform covers a broad portfolio of European solar manufacturing projects by identifying partners and reaching out to financial investors, with an overall goal of increasing the number of solar PV manufacturing projects in Europe, and contributing to the success of the European Green Deal.'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Boost solar manufacturing in Europe', 'published_date': '2020-05-13 10:34:00+02:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'There is growing momentum for solar manufacturing in Europe – with the recent letter from Ministers from Austria, Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Poland, and Spain calling for solar to be considered as a strategic value chain and receive support under COVID-19 recovery packages. Earlier this week, a letter signed by 90 organisations from the European solar sector urged for solar PV manufacturing and R&D to be at the core of the Green Deal.\n\nIdentifying partners and reaching out to financial investors\n\nThe “Solar Manufacturing Accelerator” will be coordinated by SolarPower Europe’s Industrial Strategy Workstream, and is open to all companies and organisations interested in developing or partnering on solar manufacturing projects. The platform will support such projects by identifying partners and reaching out to financial investors, with an overall goal of increasing the number of solar PV manufacturing projects in Europe, and contributing to the success of the European Green Deal.\n\nRytis Kėvelaitis, Vice Minister at Ministry of Energy of Lithuania, commented: “The European Green Deal without a solar value chain in Europe is not sustainable, if we want to achieve not only climate goals, but also bring significant economic benefits to Europeans. Joint efforts to launch a solar manufacturing hub in Europe need initiatives like the ‘Solar Manufacturing Accelerator’. This will create new opportunities in terms of economic growth, job creation and innovation in Europe, as well as investments in R&D.”\n\nContribution to the European Green Deal\n\nDr. Christian Westermeier, Chairman of SolarPower Europe’s Industrial Strategy Workstream, said: “With the launch of the ‘Solar Manufacturing Accelerator’, SolarPower Europe’s Industrial Strategy Workstream aims to demonstrate the immense contribution of solar PV manufacturing to the European Green Deal, through innovative and cutting-edge products that will create thousands of highly-skilled jobs in Europe.\n\nThe ambition of the EU Green Deal building on PV as one of the strategic pillars needs to be translated into an Industrial Strategy for European solar manufacturing. For the revival of the PV manufacturing supply chain in Europe, it is important that the EU Commission and the member states support European companies with easier access to globally-competitive financing conditions, and through enabling the appropriate economic framework to run a successful operation.”\n\nDid you miss that? Strong sectoral integration required for 100% renewable energy system\n\nGunter Erfurt, CEO of Meyer Burger, said: “Meyer Burger has recently launched an initiative to revitalise solar PV manufacturing in Europe at GW scale using our advanced PV technology. The ‘Solar Manufacturing Accelerator’ is a novel way to support European companies taking manufacturing projects forward, that can boost the EU green economy and increase energy security on the continent.\n\nThis is the perfect time to re-establish a thriving solar PV manufacturing industry in Europe, which can play a key role in revitalising our economies after the coronavirus pandemic with future-oriented technologies designed to combat the climate crisis. Now, what we urgently need to make it happen, is the right policy framework and the right incentives to allow European solar PV manufacturing to truly take off.”\n\nRe-industrialise the EU\n\nEric Scotto, CEO of Akuo, said: “The EU is writing today its history for the next 30 years. It is of strategic importance to re-industrialise the EU with solar manufacturing capacities. Akuo, through its Sunstyle International sub-branch, is producing in France innovative and aesthetic solar tiles which embody the next generation of solar generation. With this new initiative led by SolarPower Europe, we will align all forces and demonstrate that the EU is in the starting blocks to repower our industry.”\n\nAurélie Beauvais, Policy Director at SolarPower Europe, commented: “The European Commission recently presented its new Industrial Strategy, which acknowledges the need for a more strategic approach to renewable energy industries. With the ‘Solar Manufacturing Accelerator’ we aim to showcase the vast potential of solar PV manufacturing in Europe, and provide the appropriate industrial and political ecosystem needed to bring these projects forward.\n\nLeadership in innovative solar technologies\n\nEuropean solar manufacturers are already leading in innovative solar technologies, such as heterojunction cells, perovskite tandem cells, grid-connected technologies, and battery storage systems. We aim to demonstrate the breadth of these cutting-edge technologies ahead of the launch of the European Commission’s ‘Industrial Forum’ in September 2020.” (HCN)'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'SolarPower Europe Launches Solar Manufacturing Accelerator', 'published_date': '2021-02-26 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': "Sign up for daily news updates from CleanTechnica on email. Or follow us on Google News\n\nThe European Solar Initiative and Solar Power Europe have teamed up to launch the new Solar Manufacturing Accelerator. This new platform is aimed at accelerating the deployment of solar PV manufacturing projects in Europe — something that strengthens the EU’s leadership in clean energy technologies. It also contributes to the re-industrialization of Europe.\n\nThis initiative is coordinated by SolarPower Europe and has the support of its partners, ESMC, ETIP-PV, IPVF, and the VDMA. It’s open to any company or organization that wants to develop or partner on solar manufacturing projects. The platform will cover a broad portfolio of European solar manufacturing projects. It will do this by identifying partners and reaching out to financial investors with the goal of increasing the number of solar PV manufacturing projects in Europe. It also aims to contribute to the success of the European Green Deal.\n\nWalburga Hemetsberger, CEO of SolarPower Europe, shared a statement. “As the lowest cost and most job intensive renewable technology, solar is poised to deliver the goals of the European Green Deal and Green Recovery. The momentum is building to scale up manufacturing activities in the EU, based on the strong domestic market uptake confirmed in 2020 despite the COVID-19 pandemic and the sustained technological leadership of the European companies. Following the successful launch of the Solar Manufacturing Accelerator in May 2020, today we are delighted to further boost the solar industry, with EIT InnoEnergy, by launching the European Solar Initiative.”\n\nThere’s also a Business Investment Platform, which accompanies the development of comprehensive and competitive solar PV manufacturing projects in Europe. It bridges the gap between project developers and investors. Businesses can apply to join and project developers will be accompanied in the maturation of their project and in reaching out to financiers.\n\nHave a tip for CleanTechnica? Want to advertise? Want to suggest a guest for our CleanTech Talk podcast? CleanTechnica Holiday Wish Book Have a tip for CleanTechnica? Want to advertise? Want to suggest a guest for our CleanTech Talk podcast? Contact us here Click to download. Our Latest EVObsession Video I don't like paywalls. You don't like paywalls. Who likes paywalls? Here at CleanTechnica, we implemented a limited paywall for a while, but it always felt wrong — and it was always tough to decide what we should put behind there. In theory, your most exclusive and best content goes behind a paywall. But then fewer people read it!! So, we've decided to completely nix paywalls here at CleanTechnica. But... Like other media companies, we need reader support! If you support us, please chip in a bit monthly to help our team write, edit, and publish 15 cleantech stories a day! Thank you! Advertisement CleanTechnica uses affiliate links. See our policy here"}...
Article 4: {'title': "EU will do 'whatever it takes' to rebuild solar energy manufacturing in Europe", 'published_date': '2022-03-31 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': '[1/2] A general view shows solar panels used to produce renewable energy at the photovoltaic park during its official inauguration in Cestas, southwestern France, December 1, 2015. REUTERS/Regis Duvignau Acquire Licensing Rights\n\nBRUSSELS, March 31 (Reuters) - The European Commission will do "whatever it takes" to rebuild Europe\'s industry manufacturing parts for solar installations, the EU\'s energy commissioner said on Thursday, as the bloc draws up plans to quickly cut reliance on Russian gas.\n\nThe invasion of Ukraine by Russia, Europe\'s top gas supplier, has put the European Union on a mission to slash its Russian gas use by two thirds this year and end it by 2027.\n\nThe Commission is drafting a detailed plan, due in May, for how the EU\'s 27 countries can meet that goal - including by accelerating the transition to renewable energy.\n\nA specific strategy for solar energy will attempt to speed up permitting that has held up installations, support more solar power purchase agreements, and build up Europe\'s solar manufacturing capacity, Kadri Simson told the Solar Power Summit conference in Brussels.\n\n"We need to bring manufacturing back to Europe, and the Commission is willing to do whatever it takes to make it happen," she said, adding that this would include help to finance projects.\n\nThe EU imposed anti-dumping and anti-subsidy controls on solar panels from China between 2013 and 2018, in a bid to protect European manufacturers from a flood of cheaper parts from the world\'s top solar product maker.\n\nThe Commission has said 170 billion cubic metres (bcm) of Russian gas could be replaced with 480 gigawatts (GW) of wind and 420 GW of solar capacity by 2030.\n\nIndustry group SolarPower Europe said with the right policy support the EU could top 1,000 GW by 2030, compared with 165 GW today - but must overcome short-term hurdles first.\n\n"We have a shortage of installers, permitting issues, equipment issues," group president Aristotelis Chantavas said. He urged the EU to commit to produce 45% of its energy from renewables by 2030, up from the proposed 40% target now being negotiated by EU policymakers.\n\nReporting by Kate Abnett; Editing by Benoit Van Overstraeten and Tomasz Janowski\n\nOur Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.'}...
Article 5: {'title': 'SolarPower Europe', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'This important market growth offers a unique opportunity to redevelop the solar PV industry in Europe and entrench strong green growth at the heart of our continent. This is critical to ensure a diversification of supply for the EU project development industry and their resilience to shocks, such as module shortages, as well as the increasing international competition for investments in solar PV supply chains. Strengthening solar manufacturing along the whole value chain will also increase the sustainability of the technology and support the green transition.\n\n\n\nEurope has unique strengths to count on when reinvesting into a solar industry. Our highly-performing research and development ecosystem has particular advantage in the advanced technologies soon to dominate the market, such as heterojunction or perovskite. Europe also has an enduring industrial ecosystem.\n\n\n\nFor that purpose, the European Commission in coordination with SolarPower Europe, EIT and ESMC, has launched the Solar PV Industry Alliance, to reach the 30 GW of European manufacturing capacity by 2025 across all the value chain segments.'}...
