Article 1: {'title': 'Tesla aims to double production capacity in German Gigafactory, targeting 1 million EVs annually', 'published_date': '2023-07-21 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'By AFP & Euronews\n\nIf Tesla\'s plans are approved, the site will become Germany\'s largest automotive plant, ahead of Volkswagen\'s historic stronghold in Wolfsburg.\n\nADVERTISEMENT\n\nUS carmaker Tesla has submitted an application to double the production capacity of its German plant, aiming to manufacture 1 million electric vehicles annually, the company and local authorities said this week.\n\nThe factory, known as Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg, is situated approximately 30 kilometres southeast of Berlin.\n\nIn addition to doubling vehicle production from its current 500,000 vehicles a year, Tesla is seeking approval to expand its battery cell manufacturing capabilities at the same plant, raising the current battery storage capacity of 50 gigawatt-hours to 100-gigawatt hours per year.\n\nIf Tesla\'s plans are approved, the site will become Germany\'s largest automotive plant, according to the German business newspaper Handelsblatt, positioning itself ahead of Volkswagen\'s historic stronghold in Wolfsburg, which boasts a production capacity of 800,000 vehicles a year.\n\nTesla\'s rapid expansion in Grünheide, where the Gigafactory is located, has already significantly impacted the German automotive industry since it began production 16 months ago. Over the first half of 2023, Tesla surpassed Volkswagen in electric vehicle sales for the first time.\n\nAt present, however, the American electric vehicle manufacturer is still a long way from fully utilising its German plant, which opened in March 2022.\n\nCurrently, the plant only produces 5,000 units per week, resulting in an annual output of approximately 260,000 vehicles.\n\nTo seek public input on the expansion of the Gigafactory, the authorities of Brandenburg, the state where the Tesla factory is situated, have initiated a public consultation process online. Citizens have two months to comment on the project.\n\nEarly this year, the first phase of the plant\'s construction was delayed due to the high number of objections from locals, who were primarily opposed to itswater consumption.\n\nThis time around, the company has implemented a more refined strategy. On Tuesday, Tesla workers actively interacted with local residents, focusing on a range of topics, including water use, biodiversity protection, and the environmental impact assessment related to the proposed expansion.\n\nThe US car company has long argued that the plant\'s impact is relatively low and referred to the benefits of EVs in combating climate change. A spokesman also told AFP that Tesla was planning to "optimise" the process of recovering and purifying the water, so as not to increase the quantities of fresh water required.\n\nExpansion of the Gigafactory is to be phased in gradually, with three partial permit applications planned.\n\n"We have to ensure that the effects of the construction and operation of the plant are compatible with the environment," a spokeswoman for the Brandenburg Ministry of the Environment told AFP.\n\nA big push for German workers\n\nAccording to Tesla, the Gigafactory currently employs more than 10,000 workers, and the company envisions that the workforce could potentially reach 22,500 employees in the near future.\n\n“Join us at Gigafactory Berlin-Brandenburg to solve the next generation of engineering, manufacturing and operational challenges as we accelerate the world’s transition to sustainable energy,” Tesla’s website states, noting that they are “currently hiring across a wide variety of skill and experience levels—no automotive experience necessary”.\n\nWill France be left aside?\n\nFrench President Emmanuel Macron met Tesla CEO Elon Musk in May to discuss "the attractiveness of France and its industries”.\n\nAnd in December last year, Macron and Musk also met in New Orleans during the French president\'s visit to the United States.\n\nThey had, according to the latter, "a clear and sincere discussion" and exchanged on "future green industrial projects such as the production of electric vehicles and batteries".\n\nADVERTISEMENT\n\nMacron has recently announced a series of measures to support innovative industries and transition towards greener technology. They include tax credits in fields like battery production, electric cars, hydrogen, and wind power, as well as accelerating authorisations for industrial projects.\n\n"France is changing, is getting adapted to the course of the world, and I believe that we\'re following the right path, which is to reindustrialise the country, to be more sovereign and more respectful of the climate and biodiversity," Macron said on Friday during a visit to Dunkirk, in northern France.\n\nHowever, whether France will successfully secure a Tesla factory in its territory remains uncertain.'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'With New German Gigafactory, Tesla Looks To Build On Big Lead In Surging European EV Sales', 'published_date': '2022-01-10 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Tesla\'s Gigafactory located outside of Berlin will be the first manufacturing location in Europe. Tesla\n\nThe transition to electric vehicles (EVs) is occurring apace; sales in Europe are accelerating thanks to early adopter enthusiasm and government subsidies - given the shift in government and EU-wide cleaner energy initiatives. According to Schmidt Automotive, battery electric vehicle (BEV) sales will reach a market share of 60% in Western Europe by 2030, or 8.4 million vehicles – a paradigm shift on the continent where the internal combustion engine (ICE) was invented over 160 years ago.\n\nMore than 50 countries in Europe have pledged to phase out fossil fuel vehicles by 2050. Among them, Norway holds the most ambitious target, to achieve a 100% electric vehicle share of new passenger vehicles and light-duty van sales by 2025. But as these countries undergo their rapid energy transitions, they must also be mindful of the political fallout and economic realities of rising energy prices.\n\nFrance in 2019 suffered from the violent ‘gilet jaune’ (yellow jackets) political protest, and just this last weekend, Kazakhstan suffered from an eruption of political protests that were catalyzed by the removal of a price cap on liquified petroleum gas (LPG). Germany’s notorious Energiewende - the national push for economy-wide decarbonization – has resulted in a spike in dirty coal consumption and rising energy imports. Record-high energy prices still plague Europe as natural gas shortages, and low renewable output persists across the continent.\n\nTesla TSLA is the world leader in the transition to EVs. It recently submitted the final paperwork for its first manufacturing plant in Europe – the Berlin-Brandenburg Gigafactory. Some project the company will manufacture more than 2 million vehicles in 2023.\n\nTesla has the largest market share of EVs in Europe. According to estimates, the gigafactory will be able to produce 10,000 cars per week, or 520,000 cars per year. The development represents another boost to European energy security and another feather in the cap of Elon Musk, who is taking global EV markets by storm.\n\nBut Tesla isn’t the only competition in town. Volkswagen is set to surpass Tesla for EV production. The German automaker is expected to pass Tesla in 2024. It plans to cut the cost of batteries and increase efficiency by using its own battery cell production plants in Europe. While other European companies like Stellantis and BMW are expected to increase the number of vehicles sold rapidly, neither will come close to rivaling Tesla.\n\nMercedes-Benz maker Daimler AG also plans to compete with Musk through a strategy to invest more than 40 billion euros in EV technology by 2030. From 2025, all new vehicle platforms will only make EVs, the German multinational stated. The shift will see an 80% decrease in combustion engines and hybrid technology investments from 2019 to 2026.\n\nVolkswagen ID.3 electric cars stand in the storage tower following assembly at the "Gläserne ... [+] Manufaktur" ("Glass Manufactory") production facility on June 08, 2021 in Dresden, Germany. (Photo by Sean Gallup/Getty Images) Getty Images\n\nBut can Europe’s grid handle the proliferation of EV’s which Tesla, Volkswagen, Mercedes-Benz, and others promise to bring? Amidst an energy crisis that caused EU nations to burn more coal and fuel oil to offset solar and wind power underperformance, electricity and gas prices have skyrocketed. European day-ahead prices for electricity have increased to as much as 94 Euros per megawatt-hour. Throughout 2021, wholesale gas prices rose by more than 400%. Gigafactory and other EV production, though marketed as sustainable and efficient, will undoubtedly require significant amounts of electricity to fuel manufacturing and EV operations, straining an already tight market.\n\nThat’s not all Tesla and other EV manufacturers will have to contend with. Access to critical and rare earth elements (REE) has become increasingly tricky, given the strain on supply chains by the COVID-19 pandemic. This has affected access to several raw and finished products, including semiconductors, a vital component of EV production.\n\nPerhaps the most significant threat to Tesla’s success in Europe and the indigenous European EV market overall is China; Chinese companies have shown their ability to outproduce competitors at lower prices time and again throughout the energy transition. This has been demonstrated on numerous occasions, perhaps most blatantly by China’s solar panel dumping, which drove the cost of global PV cells down so dramatically that the U.S. manufacturers took action through the U.S. Department of Commerce. The U.S. attempted to safeguard the American solar industry by imposing tariffs and quotas in 2018. China brought a case to the WTO against the U.S. over these measures; however, it rejected China’s claims and backed the U.S (though to little effect thus far).\n\nChinese companies are looking to Europe to replicate their success in mainland China. EV sales in China almost tripled in 2021. With large companies, including SAIC-GM-Wuling, BYD, and Li Motors selling an increasing number of vehicles. Such companies are beginning to expand and dominate production and marketing within their region.\n\nWorkers inspect a Wuling Hongguang Mini EV, an all-electric microcar manufactured by SAIC-GM-Wuling, ... [+] at a plant of the joint automaker in Qingdao in east Chinas Shandong province Tuesday, Nov. 30, 2021. (Photo credit should read YU FANGPING/Future Publishing via Getty Images) Future Publishing via Getty Images\n\nWhile the average price of a hatchback manufactured by Lizou was marked at just $4,400, starting prices for the average Tesla begin at $45,000. Despite government subsidies and tax incentives, the price for a Tesla remains steep, opening the door for further international competition. Though Tesla could deliver up to 1.5 million cars in 2022 to Europe once production begins at Giga Texas and Giga Berlin, prices will likely remain significantly higher than those of Chinese competitors.\n\nIn Germany, Tesla’s Gigafactory portends an ever-accelerating decoupling of hydrocarbons from the European economy. But this shift is not without its risks and challenges. A more robust EV market is, of course, a good thing for European energy security; despite the potential competition from Chinese EV companies, a broader EV market in Europe could decrease dependence on unsavory hydrocarbon exporters like Saudi Arabia and Russia. However, if Europe cannot address its energy crisis by boosting baseload electricity production, EV manufacturers will be at a disadvantage expanding sales and cutting CO2 emissions on the Old Continent.\n\nWith assistance from Riley Moeder'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'Mass-produced European solar panels on the horizon', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Solar cells and panels, or modules, are central to Europe’s commitment to using renewable energy to meet up to a third of its energy needs by 2030. But while the energy will be home produced, almost none of the necessary hardware is made in Europe.\n\nMost mass-produced cells and modules are from China, Taiwan and Malaysia, according to an EU report. The most efficient crystalline silicon solar-cell technology concepts on the market – interdigitated back-contacted (IBC) type solar cells – are produced by a small number of American and Asian firms.\n\nEurope is now closer to having its own version of this technology. The EU-funded NEXTBASE project has developed highly efficient IBC solar cells in the silicon heterojunction configuration (IBC-SHJ).\n\nThe NEXTBASE cells can convert 25.4 % of the solar energy they capture into power.\n\n‘This is a European record for an industrially feasible version of IBC-SHJ technology,’ says project coordinator Kaining Ding of the Forschungszentrum Jülich GmbH research organisation in Germany.\n\n‘The current laboratory world record for a silicon solar cell is 26.7 %, which was also based on the IBC-SHJ concept but was very expensive to make. Our approach is close to the optimum level.’\n\nNEXTBASE researchers have also developed a prototype 4-cell x 4-cell solar module that has achieved 23.2 % efficiency, which is among the highest silicon module efficiencies ever reported. Encouraged by these results, the project team has developed a cost-effective manufacturing method that could produce such modules for under EUR 0.275/watt, enabling electricity generation at costs similar to generation with standard Asian-made technologies.\n\n‘It makes Europe competitive in solar cell manufacturing,’ says Ding.\n\nEnergy-tech innovations\n\nDing adds that the cells can make Europe’s energy more sustainable and secure. ‘The higher efficiency fosters the transition to renewables as it produces more energy from smaller areas than similar less-efficient cells,’ he explains, adding: ‘From an environmental and societal view, it is better to produce locally.’\n\nThe IBC-SHJ technology is key to the impressive energy conversion rate. Metallic contacts in standard mass-produced solar technology are on the front and back, wasting the solar energy that is blocked by the metal on the front. In contrast, back-contacted cells have all the connections at the back, so that they can capture solar energy across their entire front surface, in addition to being aesthetically pleasing.\n\nExisting IBC-type modules sell only to a premium market and are expensive to make, according to Ding. The 14 industry and research partners in the NEXTBASE consortium changed designs and processes for the silicon wafers, the cells and the modules in this technology to make them both more efficient and more cost-effective.\n\nDing explains that IBC-SHJ cells have complicated structures. ‘There was no cost-competitive industrial way to produce them.’\n\nNEXTBASE member Meyer Burger Research AG developed an automated process for producing the cells cheaply. ‘This process was very successful and simple,’ says Ding.\n\nPilot preparations\n\nDing believes that NEXTBASE can increase manufacturing and consumer interest in European photovoltaic technology and make IBC-SHJ modules more attractive to consumers. ‘The results are leading to commercialisation of high-efficiency PV modules based on next-generation c-Si solar cells. Without EU funding, the partners would not have worked together that closely,’ says Ding. ‘Everyone has an active interest in doing the work, even beyond the project.’\n\nThe next step will be to demonstrate that the NEXTBASE cell can work in larger modules and to industrialise production. The partners are planning a project for a pilot line, led by Meyer Burger Research AG, which now has a patent on the cell.\n\nHowever, scientific information about the project’s innovations can be accessed on the NEXTBASE website, including its cost and life-cycle impact analysis, allowing other projects and businesses to develop additional next-generation solar technology in Europe.'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'EU Solar Manufacturing Map', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'This is a dynamic map that allows you to use the filter system and select any segment of the value chain, in any country. If you would like more information about this map, or if you want your company to be included, please contact Christophe Lits at c.lits@solarpowereurope.org .'}...
Article 5: {'title': 'Boost solar manufacturing in Europe', 'published_date': '2020-05-13 10:34:00+02:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'There is growing momentum for solar manufacturing in Europe – with the recent letter from Ministers from Austria, Estonia, Greece, Latvia, Lithuania, Luxembourg, Poland, and Spain calling for solar to be considered as a strategic value chain and receive support under COVID-19 recovery packages. Earlier this week, a letter signed by 90 organisations from the European solar sector urged for solar PV manufacturing and R&D to be at the core of the Green Deal.\n\nIdentifying partners and reaching out to financial investors\n\nThe “Solar Manufacturing Accelerator” will be coordinated by SolarPower Europe’s Industrial Strategy Workstream, and is open to all companies and organisations interested in developing or partnering on solar manufacturing projects. The platform will support such projects by identifying partners and reaching out to financial investors, with an overall goal of increasing the number of solar PV manufacturing projects in Europe, and contributing to the success of the European Green Deal.\n\nRytis Kėvelaitis, Vice Minister at Ministry of Energy of Lithuania, commented: “The European Green Deal without a solar value chain in Europe is not sustainable, if we want to achieve not only climate goals, but also bring significant economic benefits to Europeans. Joint efforts to launch a solar manufacturing hub in Europe need initiatives like the ‘Solar Manufacturing Accelerator’. This will create new opportunities in terms of economic growth, job creation and innovation in Europe, as well as investments in R&D.”\n\nContribution to the European Green Deal\n\nDr. Christian Westermeier, Chairman of SolarPower Europe’s Industrial Strategy Workstream, said: “With the launch of the ‘Solar Manufacturing Accelerator’, SolarPower Europe’s Industrial Strategy Workstream aims to demonstrate the immense contribution of solar PV manufacturing to the European Green Deal, through innovative and cutting-edge products that will create thousands of highly-skilled jobs in Europe.\n\nThe ambition of the EU Green Deal building on PV as one of the strategic pillars needs to be translated into an Industrial Strategy for European solar manufacturing. For the revival of the PV manufacturing supply chain in Europe, it is important that the EU Commission and the member states support European companies with easier access to globally-competitive financing conditions, and through enabling the appropriate economic framework to run a successful operation.”\n\nDid you miss that? Strong sectoral integration required for 100% renewable energy system\n\nGunter Erfurt, CEO of Meyer Burger, said: “Meyer Burger has recently launched an initiative to revitalise solar PV manufacturing in Europe at GW scale using our advanced PV technology. The ‘Solar Manufacturing Accelerator’ is a novel way to support European companies taking manufacturing projects forward, that can boost the EU green economy and increase energy security on the continent.\n\nThis is the perfect time to re-establish a thriving solar PV manufacturing industry in Europe, which can play a key role in revitalising our economies after the coronavirus pandemic with future-oriented technologies designed to combat the climate crisis. Now, what we urgently need to make it happen, is the right policy framework and the right incentives to allow European solar PV manufacturing to truly take off.”\n\nRe-industrialise the EU\n\nEric Scotto, CEO of Akuo, said: “The EU is writing today its history for the next 30 years. It is of strategic importance to re-industrialise the EU with solar manufacturing capacities. Akuo, through its Sunstyle International sub-branch, is producing in France innovative and aesthetic solar tiles which embody the next generation of solar generation. With this new initiative led by SolarPower Europe, we will align all forces and demonstrate that the EU is in the starting blocks to repower our industry.”\n\nAurélie Beauvais, Policy Director at SolarPower Europe, commented: “The European Commission recently presented its new Industrial Strategy, which acknowledges the need for a more strategic approach to renewable energy industries. With the ‘Solar Manufacturing Accelerator’ we aim to showcase the vast potential of solar PV manufacturing in Europe, and provide the appropriate industrial and political ecosystem needed to bring these projects forward.\n\nLeadership in innovative solar technologies\n\nEuropean solar manufacturers are already leading in innovative solar technologies, such as heterojunction cells, perovskite tandem cells, grid-connected technologies, and battery storage systems. We aim to demonstrate the breadth of these cutting-edge technologies ahead of the launch of the European Commission’s ‘Industrial Forum’ in September 2020.” (HCN)'}...
