Article 1: {'title': 'Verkor l Batteries. Now. For the future. l Production de batteries', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Verkor secures more than €2 billion to launch high performance battery gigafactory in France and accelerate future sustainable mobility\n\n14 September 2023 – Verkor secures more than €2 billion in financing following the signing of a minimum of €850m Series C funding1 , approval of European Investment Bank for €600m debt support and French subsidies for an amount around €650m, subject to final approval by the European Commission. This financing will accelerate: the construction of Verkor’s first gigafactory, in Dunkirk, and the manufacture of highperformance low-carbon battery cells, ongoing technological developments at the Verkor Innovation Centre (VIC) for new manufacturing technologies and new state-of-the-art product, strategic investments across the battery value chain, thereby generating thousands of direct and…'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Verkor secures more than €2 billion to launch high performance battery gigafactory in France and accelerate future sustainable mobility', 'published_date': '2023-09-14 05:13:00+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Press release, Uncategorized\n\n14 September 2023 – Verkor secures more than €2 billion in financing following the signing of a minimum of €850m Series C funding1 , approval of European Investment Bank for €600m debt support and French subsidies for an amount around €650m, subject to final approval by the European Commission.\n\nThis financing will accelerate:\n\nthe construction of Verkor’s first gigafactory, in Dunkirk, and the manufacture of highperformance low-carbon battery cells,\n\nongoing technological developments at the Verkor Innovation Centre (VIC) for new manufacturing technologies and new state-of-the-art product,\n\nstrategic investments across the battery value chain, thereby generating thousands of direct and indirect long-term jobs.\n\nThis financial support and the presence of prominent funding partners demonstrate the business viability of Verkor’s robust development plan, backed by established contracts with tier-one partners, including a long-term commercial partnership with Renault Group. It will not only provide the European automotive industry with low-carbon batteries but will also play a key role to support the European sovereignty in sustainable electric mobility and energy storage.\n\nThe largest equity raise for a French start-up\n\nMacquarie Asset Management, via its Energy Transition Solutions Fund, becomes lead investor in Verkor’s Series C funding round. With the recent addition of cornerstone investor Meridiam1 , they join forces to finance Verkor’s first gigafactory, in Dunkirk, new technological development programmes and investments across the low carbon battery value chain.\n\nMacquarie Asset Management, the world’s largest infrastructure manager and a leading energy transition investor, will invest via its specialist Green Investment team. Meridiam, an independent investment Benefit Corporation and asset manager is taking a significant stake in the round1 and will also play an active role in supporting the development of Verkor’s first Gigafactory.\n\nAlso joining in the round are Verkor’s original key industrial and financial partners such as Renault Group, EQT Ventures, EIT InnoEnergy and Sibanye-Stillwater. The SPI investment fund (Société de projets industriels) which is operated by Bpifrance (the French public investment bank) is increasing its investment in this round, as part of the “Invest for the Future” programme.\n\nThis equity round also benefits from the French insurance ecosystem’s strong support for green reindustrialisation, thanks to significant investment from Crédit Agricole Assurances and the Fonds Stratégique de Participations (FSP), operated by ISALT. Crédit Agricole Assurances, France’s largest insurance group, is a leading institutional investor in renewable sources of energy with 11,8 GW of installed capacity in Europe at the end of 2022. The FSP aims to help the development and transition of French strategic industries by providing significant long-term investment. The Fund is supported by seven leading French insurance companies which will contribute to strengthen Verkor’s growth through their vast ecosystem.\n\nPULSE, the CMA CGM Energy Fund, contributed to the fundraising as part of a broader partnership with Verkor around the supply chain and decarbonisation of the transport and logistics industries. Also participating is Netherlands-based Airbridge Investments, a strong supporter of building better and more environmentally conscious businesses.\n\nThe round size, which is subject to customary regulatory approvals, is a minimum of €850 million and could increase in the following weeks.\n\nNational and local authorities fully engaged\n\nVerkor will also receive around €650m in subsidies primarily from the French State under the “France 2030” plan, including the support of the Hauts-de-France region and the Dunkirk urban community, which will issue €60m and €30m in subsidies respectively.\n\nTheir support will be subject to final approval by the European Commission within the Framework for State aid for Research and Development and Innovation. It enables an ambitious innovation programme performed by Verkor and its partners in cutting-edge manufacturing techniques using digital and recycling technologies. These technologies are being developed at the Verkor Innovation Centre in Grenoble and will be scaled up in Verkor’s gigafactory.\n\nStrong support from European public players\n\nThis Series C funding comes just after the board of the European Investment Bank (EIB) approved a €600m support package through project finance debt and intermediated funding lines. This initial support is part of a broader project finance debt currently in progress with commercial banks alongside the EIB.\n\nAdditional information on the gigafactory\n\nVerkor’s gigafactory will have an initial production capacity of 16 GWh/year. Situated in the Port of Dunkirk, the gigafactory is expected to be operational by 2025 and will create around 1,200 direct and 3,000 indirect jobs. This facility makes Verkor a partner of mobility and stationary storage players by providing European high-performance and low-carbon batteries to facilitate their energy transition.\n\nEmmanuel Macron, President of the French Republic, who very recently met with the investors at the Elysée Palace, commented: “Since 2017 we have been leading a proactive policy to launch an industrial reconquest everywhere in our territories. The results of this policy are conclusive: we have created new jobs and enhanced the attractiveness of our country. This new, historic fundraising for French Tech, with the support of France 2030 resources, is a bold sign of our ambition for reindustrialisation. It also demonstrates the full coherence of our innovation policy at national and European level, with the support of everyone, investors, large companies and local territories. You are exemplary, and I congratulate you!”\n\nBenoit Lemaignan, CEO of Verkor said: “We are very proud to secure more than €2 billion to concretise our ambition. Together we’ll bring to life a high performance gigafactory, accelerating a responsible energy transition and transport decarbonisation This global financing solidifies our long- term perspectives and with the renewed commitment of our existing partners, we are now on track to becoming one of the leading European battery manufacturers.”\n\nChris Archer, Co-Head of EMEA for Macquarie Asset Management Green Investments said: “Achieving the electrification of Europe’s car industry by 2035 will require significant investment in battery manufacturing supply chains. Macquarie Asset Management is well placed to play a leading role in mobilising the significant volumes of private capital required to enable this huge industrial transition. Verkor has assembled one of the leading teams, developed a robust technical solution and won the backing of state and leading industrial partners. The long-term commercial agreement with Renault Group secures the investment case for the first gigafactory and together with this fundraising signals Verkor’s transformation from a startup to a leading player in the European battery space.”\n\nThierry Déau, Founder and CEO of Meridiam, said: “Meridiam’s investment in Verkor underlines our long-term commitment for positive impact in the energy transition. This first gigafactory project paves the way of Europe industrial renewal and is key to achieve decarbonation of our transportation system.”\n\nPhilippe Dumont, CEO of Crédit Agricole Assurances said: “As a responsible insurer committed to fighting causes of climate change, we are proud to participate in one of the first initiatives launched to relocalise the manufacturing of batteries for electric vehicles in France and Europe, alongside an innovative French industrial player. Crédit Agricole Assurances is a leading institutional investor in green energies and a major long-term investor in the French regions. This project fully meets our decarbonisation ambitions and the Crédit Agricole group’s ‘raison d’être’ Act every day in the interest of our customers and society”.\n\nLuca de Meo, CEO of Renault Group, said: “As a partner from the outset, Renault Group is proud to be associated with the success of this capital increase, alongside leading investors who are convinced of the economic competitiveness and technical quality of Verkor’s high-performance, lowcarbon batteries. Following on from the high-quality work carried out between our two companies, this is a decisive step for the development of an electric ecosystem in France. It will very soon enable the construction of the Verkor gigafactory in Dunkirk whose batteries will equip the future Alpine CCrossover GT from 2025, as well as vehicles in the upper segments of the Renault range.”\n\nStéphane Dedeyan, Chairman of the Fonds Stratégique de Participation (FSP) said: “France, and more broadly Europe, need to strengthen their independence by accelerating the industrial scale-up of innovative companies that require substantial capital to develop and transform. These future champions operate in highly competitive sectors such as electric mobility, the field in which Verkor, a future European leader in the production of low-carbon batteries, applies its expertise. This new FSP investment in Verkor furthers our ambition of laying the foundations for a New Industry in France, innovative, low-carbon and capable of competing with the world’s top players”.\n\nNicolas Dufourcq, CEO of Bpifrance said: “We are very pleased to participate in the construction of this gigafactory in Dunkirk. This fundraising emblematically illustrates our desire to encourage projects based on innovative technologies that contribute to our sovereignty and the reindustrialisation of France as well as the transition to a carbon-free society. The development of the Verkor factory, which we have supported since its creation, will be a source of pride for the entire region and inspiration for the entire ecosystem of industrial startups.”\n\nMichel Sirat, Executive Vice-President M&A in charge of PULSE, CMA CGM Energy Fund: “With this investment in low-carbon battery production in the maritime city of Dunkirk, PULSE continues investing in electric mobility to support the decarbonisation of transport. We look forward to supporting Verkor’s team and to share CMA CGM’s logistic expertise. PULSE is committed to achieving CMA CGM commitment to reach Net Zero Carbon by 2050.”\n\nRania Belkahia and Gregory Bernstein, board members for EQT Ventures said: “We are thrilled to be a part of Verkor’s journey and to be supporting a generation-defining company. EQT Ventures’ mission aligns perfectly with Verkor’s ambition of fast-tracking low-carbon battery production in Europe. We both are excited to collaborate with the high-performing team and contribute to their groundbreaking efforts to create meaningful change in the world.”\n\nNeal Froneman, CEO of Sibanye-Stillwater commented: “We are pleased to maintain and increase our support for Verkor through a further investment to support the development of Verkor’s battery gigafactory in Dunkirk and innovative technologies, aligned with our strategic expansion into the European battery metals ecosystem. We are eager to ensure large-scale storage and electric vehicles powered by low-carbon batteries in Europe through our investment and association with Verkor and its partners.”\n\nJefferies acts as lead financial advisor for Verkor alongside Ceres Partners and Santander Corporate & Investment Banking. Hogan Lovells acts as legal advisor.\n\n1 Subject to regulatory approvals'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'Verkor brings five new partners on board, raising €100m to develop high-performance sustainable battery cells in France', 'published_date': '2021-07-06 16:00:00+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Press release\n\nCo-led by EQT Ventures and Renault Group, the fundraise allows Verkor to break ground on an advanced R&D facility and pilot line for high-performance battery cells and intelligent manufacturing – a leap forward in its roadmap to 50 GWh battery production capacity by 2030.\n\nPress release\n\nGrenoble, France – 6 July 2021 – In less than a year after its launch, the French industrial company Verkor today announces that it has raised €100m in funding. Co-led by EQT Ventures and Renault Group, with participation from the French Government and Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes Region, the funding will support the company’s expansion, and trigger the construction of the Verkor Innovation Centre (VIC) where the advanced battery cells and modules will be designed to support Europe’s net-zero goals. Also participating in the round were EIT InnoEnergy, Groupe IDEC, Schneider Electric, Capgemini, Arkema, Tokai COBEX and the Fund for Ecologic Modernisation of Transport (FMET) managed by Demeter.\n\nAll 10 partners are united by the same vision: to build a competitive, sustainable, and local battery cell value chain in Europe. Verkor will deliver on this with a battery cell manufacturing capacity of 16 GWh in 2024, scaling to +50 GWh by 2030. The VIC, which will be located in Grenoble and operational in 2022, is a major milestone in achieving this vision. It will accommodate a pilot line for battery cell manufacturing, a R&D centre, testing facilities, module prototyping, and provide training for a new generation of engineers and technicians.\n\nAt a signing ceremony in Paris today, Verkor’s CEO Benoit Lemaignan said: “We are honoured to have shareholders of such a high quality on board with us. I want to thank our team for what we have achieved together in less than a year of existence. Our new shareholding structure totally reflects our ambition: an end-to-end approach to battery manufacturing, each of us focusing on what we do best, while cross-fertilising our expertise.”\n\nGregory Bernstein, Investor at EQT Ventures: “The world’s energy transition to net zero will require innovation excellence, execution, and bold vision. This is also exactly what we look for in the teams that we want to invest in and why we at EQT Ventures are thrilled to join our other partners in backing the Verkor team on their journey to lead the way in Europe.”\n\nAgnès Pannier-Runacher, the French Minister of Industry: “I welcome this new partnership which is another building block in the industrial and technological ecosystem for batteries in France and in Europe. With the automotive industry facing unprecedented challenges, the investments we make today will turn into tomorrow’s jobs. We are supporting Verkor’s growth through CORAM, the French orientation committee for automotive and mobility research, which is financed by the French future investment programme, the PIA. Our goal is to accelerate the development of innovative digital processes for battery cell manufacturing, which will be implemented in the future Gigafactory”.\n\nAlso present at the ceremony was Maroš Šefčovič, the EU Commission’s VP for Interinstitutional Relations and Foresight: “This partnership is yet another proof that the European Battery Alliance is making real difference on the ground. In three years, Europe has become a global hotspot for battery investment, showing that we can achieve open strategic autonomy in this key industrial sector. None of this would have been possible without the dedication and collaboration of all actors, including our innovative industrial actors and our Member States. France, with its strong commitment to sustainable mobility, is clearly among our leading forces.”\n\nVerkor will now benefit from the industrial expertise of new shareholders Arkema, a leader in high-performance specialty materials, and Tokai COBEX, a speciality manufacturer of low-carbon, ultra-efficient battery anode materials. Demeter, a major energy transition private equity fund also steps in with its Fund for Ecological Modernisation of transport (FMET), while the French Government, Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes Region and Bpifrance will provide financial support for the R&D programme.\n\nThe news follows the signing of a partnership between Verkor and Renault Group just last week under which Verkor will supply an initial capacity of at least 10 GWh per year for the C and higher segments of the Renault range, as well as for the Alpine models.\n\nWith EIT InnoEnergy’s trusted European ecosystem, Groupe IDEC’s property development savoir-faire, Schneider Electric’s industrial manufacturing expertise and Capgemini’s applied science in intelligent industry, the foundations of the Verkor Innovation Centre and the future Gigafactory are now firmly in place.\n\nBarber Hauler Capital Advisers, Santander Corporate & Investment Banking acted as financial advisors to the company, and De Gaulle and Fleurance & Associés as legal advisors.\n\nAbout Verkor\n\nFounded in July 2020, Verkor is a French industrial company based in Grenoble. With the backing of EIT InnoEnergy, Groupe IDEC, Schneider Electric, Capgemini and now Renault Group, EQT Ventures, Arkema, Tokai COBEX and FMET managed by Demeter. Verkor will ramp up low-carbon battery manufacturing in France and southern Europe to meet the growing demand for electric vehicles — and electric mobility as a whole — and stationary storage in Europe.\n\nVerkor is developing an enticing business model based on agility, sustainability and governance that is attracting the best talents from around the world. Its strong and agile team continues to grow as new challenges arise. Verkor is leading a unifying project that brings together the best partners for establishing the entire value chain in Europe and ensuring the optimal use of skills and resources. Verkor will draw on these strengths to open its entirely digital 4.0 pilot line in 2022. A model of excellence, competitiveness and resource efficiency, this innovation will be integrated into the Gigafactory due for construction in 2024.\n\nMore information on http://verkor.com/en/\n\nAbout Renault Group\n\nRenault Group is at the forefront of a mobility that is reinventing itself. Strengthened by its alliance with Nissan and Mitsubishi Motors, and its unique expertise in electrification, Renault Group comprises 5 complementary brands – Renault, Dacia, LADA, Alpine and Mobilize – offering sustainable and innovative mobility solutions to its customers. Established in more than 130 countries, the Group has sold 2.9 million vehicles in 2020. It employs more than 170,000 people who embody its Purpose every day, so that mobility brings people closer. Ready to pursue challenges both on the road and in competition, Renault Group is committed to an ambitious transformation that will generate value. This is centred on the development of new technologies and services, and a new range of even more competitive, balanced, and electrified vehicles. In line with environmental challenges, the Group’s ambition is to achieve carbon neutrality in Europe by 2050.\n\nhttps://www.renaultgroup.com/en/\n\nAbout EQT Ventures\n\nEQT Ventures is a multi-stage VC fund that partners with the most ambitious and boldest founders in Europe and the US. The fund is based in Luxembourg and has investment advisors stationed in Stockholm, Amsterdam, London, San Francisco, Berlin and Paris. Fuelled by some of Europe’s most experienced company builders and scalers, EQT Ventures helps the next generation of entrepreneurs with the capital and hands-on support needed to build global winners.\n\nhttps://eqtventures.com\n\nAbout Arkema\n\nArkema draws on its unique expertise in materials science to offer a portfolio of leading technologies that address the ever-growing demand for new, sustainable materials. Arkema’s ambition is to become a major player in Specialty Materials by 2024. It is currently structured as three complementary, resilient, and highly innovative segments dedicated to Specialty Materials—Adhesive Solutions, Advanced Materials, and Coating Solutions—accounting for 82% of the Group’s turnover, in addition to a well-positioned, competitive Intermediates segment. Arkema offers cutting-edge technological solutions to meet the challenges of new energies, access to water, recycling, town planning, and mobility, among other things, and fosters a permanent dialogue with all its stakeholders. The Group reported a turnover of around €8 billion in 2020 and operates in some 55 countries, with 20,600 employees worldwide\n\nwww.arkema.com\n\nAbout Tokai COBEX\n\nTokai COBEX – a company of Tokai Carbon Group\n\nFor more than a century, we have been a flagship of carbon and synthetic graphite design and manufacture, supplying a variety of high-end applications. We operate worldwide providing innovative solutions to our customers. A highly skilled team with years of experience in product development and application assists our customers with their technical knowledge and expertise. Our core competencies include wide-ranging expertise in raw materials, application know-how, and excellent understanding of manufacturing processes in our customers’ industries (including primary aluminium, pig iron, silicon metal, and ferro-alloys). Our Research and Development staff work in collaboration with our parent company Tokai Carbon to develop the next generation of synthetic graphite products, particularly specialty graphite and graphite powders which are mainly used in electric lithium-ion batteries. Our global network enables us to respond flexibly to both regional and industry-specific requirements and is fit to tackle the challenges of the future.\n\nwww.tokaicobex.com\n\nAbout Demeter – FMET\n\nDemeter is a major European player in venture capital and private equity for the energy and ecological transition. Its funds invest from €1m to €30m to support companies in the sector at all stages of their development: innovative startups, small and mid-cap companies, as well as infrastructure projects. The Demeter team counts 37 people based in Paris, Lyon, Bordeaux, Grenoble, Metz, Madrid, and Düsseldorf, manages €1bn and has completed 180 investments over 16 years.\n\nThe Fonds de Modernisation Ecologique des Transports (FMET) is a €200 million investment fund, dedicated to the ecological modernisation of transportation infrastructures. Funded by Vinci Autoroutes, APRR (Autoroutes Paris Rhin Rhône), and the shareholders of SANEF, this fund results from the agreement between the French government and the three French toll road operators.\n\nwww.demeter-im.com\n\nAbout EIT InnoEnergy\n\nEIT InnoEnergy is the leading engine for innovation and entrepreneurship in sustainable energy across Europe and beyond.\n\nEIT InnoEnergy has provided investments and added value services to some 380 sustainable energy related start-ups, of those 30+ are in storage, including flagship players like Northvolt, a vertically integrated sustainable battery manufacturer, and Skeleton Technologies, a global leader in ultracapacitors who is playing a key role within leading OEMs.\n\nFollowing the mandate of the EU Commission, EIT InnoEnergy is leading the industrial stream of the European Battery Alliance in 2017, a European Commission initiative to build a strong and competitive European battery industry.\n\nEIT InnoEnergy was established in 2010, has invested €560 million in sustainable energy innovations and is supported by the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT).\n\nwww.innoenergy.com\n\nAbout Groupe IDEC\n\nFounded in 2000 by Patrice LAFARGUE, the GROUPE IDEC is one of the few global players in the French real estate market, present in all businesses (planning, development, investment, design-build, tailored energy solutions) and all areas of activity (industry, logistics, services, offices, commercial, interior design …). The GROUPE IDEC can thus provide a comprehensive and tailor-made response to its customers and partners: businesses, communities, and individuals. Composed of 20 companies, the GROUPE IDEC combines the power and leverage of a large group with the agility and ability to listen of smaller structures. Firmly established in France, the GROUPE IDEC has been accelerating its international development for the last three years.\n\nwww.groupeidec.com\n\nAbout Schneider Electric\n\nSchneider’s purpose is to empower all to make the most of our energy and resources, bridging progress and sustainability for all. We call this Life Is On.\n\nOur mission is to be your digital partner for Sustainability and Efficiency.\n\nWe drive digital transformation by integrating world-leading process and energy technologies, end-point to cloud connecting products, controls, software and services, across the entire lifecycle, enabling integrated company management, for homes, buildings, data centers, infrastructure and industries.\n\nWe are the most local of global companies. We are advocates of open standards and partnership ecosystems that are passionate about our shared Meaningful Purpose, Inclusive and Empowered values.\n\nwww.se.com\n\nAbout Capgemini\n\nCapgemini is a global leader in partnering with companies to transform and manage their business by harnessing the power of technology. The Group is guided everyday by its purpose of unleashing human energy through technology for an inclusive and sustainable future. It is a responsible and diverse organization of 270,000 team members in nearly 50 countries. With its strong 50 year heritage and deep industry expertise, Capgemini is trusted by its clients to address the entire breadth of their business needs, from strategy and design to operations, fueled by the fast evolving and innovative world of cloud, data, AI, connectivity, software, digital engineering and platforms. The Group reported in 2020 global revenues of €16 billion.\n\nGet the Future You Want\n\nwww.capgemini.com'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'France: Verkor raises more than 250 million euros in additional financing for its Verkor Innovation Centre', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Verkor receives the support of the European Investment Bank, securing the financing of its innovation centre in Grenoble, which is coming to completion. This latest mechanism mobilises Verkor’s solid financial ecosystem of industrial partners in the battery sector, commercial banks, investment funds, and public banks.\n\nLocated in Grenoble, the VIC is Verkor’s technological and innovation centre: a 15,000 m2 building comprising an R&D lab for designing high-performance batteries, an intelligent pilot line with a capacity of 150 MWh/year, and a training centre to meet the battery sector’s growing need for a specialised workforce. Construction is already well underway, with delivery set for the first half of 2023.\n\nFor the inauguration of its R&D lab, an integral part of the Verkor Innovation Centre, the company raised more than 250 million euros, with the following breakdown:\n\nThe European Investment Bank is financing €49m as part of the Energy Demonstration Projects (EDP) product of its initiative InnovFin – EU Finance for Innovators – in cooperation with the European Commission, to develop pilot projects in the energy sector. Verkor affirms its status as a company committed to the development of a European electric vehicle battery ecosystem.\n\nBpifrance Assurance Export will guarantee €51m of bank financing. This financing, currently being finalised, got a provisional agreement from Santander Corporate & Investment Banking and Société Générale. This strategic project guarantee (GPS), granted by the French Government to “Large strategic projects” allows the state and the BPI to support the development of national champions. Verkor is the first project to benefit from this French state support to strategic projects.\n\nA convertible bond issue with financial partners like Demeter FMET and the SPI investment fund (“Société de projets industriels”) operated by Bpifrance on behalf of the French Government in the framework of the “Invest for the Future” programme; industrial partners like Plastic Omnium, Sibayne-Stillwater, Groupe IDEC, Schneider Electric and Verkor employees that support Verkor’s project bringing together several million euros of personal investment.\n\nThe total acquisition of the Siemens site in Grenoble and the co-investment with GROUPE IDEC for a total of more than 70 million euros with the goal of finalising the Verkor Innovation Centre, moving the company’s headquarters and opening the “Ecole de la Batterie.”\n\nBenoit Lemaignan, CEO of Verkor said: “This announcement is a further concretisation of the efforts undertaken over the last two years to build the future of electric mobility in Europe. I welcome the support of our institutional and industrial partners to make our project a reality. I know we can continue to count on them for the next milestone of our development. I would also like to thank our team who, over and above their unwavering commitment every day, are betting on the future of our collective project.”\n\nAmbroise Fayolle, Vice President of the European Investment Bank said: “The European Investment Bank is demonstrating its determination to build a better future using European technologies that address the urgency of the fight against climate change, as well as the objective to relocalise strategic value chains. After financing several other projects in the sector like the Northvolt Gigafactory in Sweden and those of Renault in Douai and Stellantis in Douvrain, the European Investment Bank is proud to join the ecosystem of public and private partners supporting Verkor as they reach their goals in France.”\n\nBruno Le Maire, French Minister of Economy, Finance and Industrial and Digital Sovereignty said: “The project Verkor is undertaking will create thousands of jobs locally, while reinforcing what is a strategic sector for France. This promising start-up can count on our continued support.”\n\nLaurence Boone, State Secretary to the Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs, with responsibility for Europe added: “Last week, the European Union confirmed the objective of 100% zero-emission vehicles by 2035: this is a major step forward towards our climate objectives. It goes hand in hand with the ambitious industrial policy that we are pursuing in Europe and in France, the project implemented by Verkor being a part of it. We are committed to developing French and European production capacities for electric vehicles, batteries and to deploying charging infrastructures, while supporting companies and households in this transition as well as promoting employment.”\n\nDoris Birkhofer, President of Siemens France said: “Heritage and transmission are strong values at Siemens. As we celebrate our 175th anniversary this year, we are proud that a company like Verkor, with whom we share these values as well as the spirit of innovation and the development of cutting-edge skills for an intelligent and efficient industry, carries on the legacy.”\n\nPatrice Lafargue, President of GROUPE IDEC said: “Very early on, Verkor and its board members convinced us, with their business model, of their capacity to create and federate an entire ecosystem to produce electric vehicle batteries in France. I am impressed by the trajectory of the company, its exceptional growth since our investment two years ago alongside other prestigious partners. GROUPE IDEC is proud to support this new champion of French industrial savoir-faire by financing the Verkor Innovation Centre in Grenoble via our affiliate GROUPE IDEC INVEST. This highly technical transaction, designed by our engineering branch, represents an exceptional opportunity to industrialise their activity on a greater scale.”\n\nPhilippe Detours, Managing Partner at Demeter said: “Demeter, via its fund for the Ecological modernisation of transportation, plays a pioneer investment role in the infrastructure dedicated to decarbonisation of the transportation system in France. Since 2017, FMET invests across the electric mobility supply chain: investing in 2500 charging stations across France, their interoperability with Girève, the reuse of second-life batteries with the Renault Advance Battery Storage programme and production of high-performance batteries with Verkor, which we are very proud to support.”\n\nNeal Froneman, CEO of Sibanye-Stillwater said: “We are thrilled to be part of Verkor’s development and the development of the future of low-caron footprint batteries in Europe, which is complementary to our green metals strategy.”\n\nThis financing programme for the VIC allows Verkor to unite a full ecosystem of financial partners (investment funds, industry partners and commercial and public banks). As the construction of the VIC approaches its final stage, Verkor teams are now focused on financing the first Verkor Gigafactory with initial production capacity of 16 GWh/year in the Port of Dunkirk. This new investment on French soil, due for approval in the first quarter of 2023, will be in the region of €1.5 billion and will create around 1,200 direct jobs. It will also contribute significantly to the fight against climate change by bringing low-carbon, high-performance batteries, to the market.\n\nBackground information\n\nAbout the European Investment Bank\n\nSince 2019, the EIB been accelerating its transformation into the EU climate bank with a commitment to devote at least 50% of its financing as from 2025 to investments that help combat and mitigate the impact of climate change. In 2021, it had already achieved this target in France, directing two-thirds of its €9.2 billion of investment to projects in renewable energy, energy efficiency of buildings and sustainable transport development.\n\nAbout InnovFin Energy Demonstration Projects\n\nThis facility provides loans, loan guarantees or equity-type financing to innovative demonstration projects to accelerate the energy transition. The financing ranges from €7.5 million to €75 million and supports, amongst others, renewable energy technologies, smart energy systems, energy storage, carbon capture and storage, carbon capture and use, as well as a circular economy. It helps the projects to bridge the gap between demonstration and commercialisation to overcome market failures.\n\nAbout Verkor\n\nFounded in July 2020, Verkor is a French industrial company based in Grenoble. With the backing of EIT InnoEnergy, Groupe IDEC, Schneider Electric, Capgemini, Renault Group, EQT Ventures, Arkema, Tokai COBEX, FMET managed by Demeter, Sibanye-Stillwater and Plastic Omnium, Verkor will ramp up low-carbon battery manufacturing in France and Europe to meet the growing demand for electric vehicles —and electric mobility as a whole — and stationary storage in Europe.\n\nVerkor is developing an enticing business model based on agility, sustainability and governance that is attracting the best talents from around the world. Its strong and agile team continues to grow as new challenges arise. Verkor is leading a unifying project that brings together the best partners for establishing the entire value chain in Europe and ensuring the optimal use of skills and resources. Verkor will draw on these strengths to open its entirely digital 4.0 pilot line in 2022. A model of excellence, competitiveness and resource efficiency, this innovation will be integrated into the Gigafactory due for construction in 2024\n\nFor more information, www.verkor.com'}...
