Article 1: {'title': 'ACC to build next battery factory in Italy for Stellantis', 'published_date': '2022-03-23 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Stellantis has officially confirmed plans to build a third Automotive Cells Company (ACC) battery factory in Termoli, Italy. For this purpose, Stellantis’ existing engine plant will be converted into a battery factory.\n\nBy 2030, the joint venture of Stellantis, Total and, since September 2021, Mercedes-Benz, aim for total battery cell capacities of at least 120 GWh. The Termoli plant will have a capacity of 40 GWh in this, while two other ACC plants in Douvrin (France) and Kaiserslautern (Germany) are planned to be upgraded from their initial 24 GWh each to 40 GWh each to complete the bill.\n\nThe move to turn the Termoli engine plant into a battery cell factory had been in the offing for a long time. At the “EV Day” last July, Stellantis CEO Carlos Tavares confirmed that the group had concluded a corresponding agreement on the future of Termoli with the Italian government.\n\n“We are grateful to everyone involved in this investment to secure the future of the great community in Termoli,” Tavares now says, according to the latest news release. “Transforming the existing plant to help support a more sustainable future positions ACC as the European leader in battery manufacturing and reaffirms, thanks to the collaboration with the Ministry of Economic Development, Italy’s role in supporting Stellantis’ transformation to a sustainable mobility tech company.”\n\nIt is unknown when Stellantis or ACC will comment on further plans for Termoli and the potential sites 4 and 5. So far, the finalisation of plans for Termoli is still “subject to customary closing conditions, including regulatory approvals”, Stellantis writes.\n\nWhat is clear, however, is that the entry of Mercedes-Benz is now signed and sealed, and in this case, the regulatory approvals have been granted. The “agreement to include Mercedes-Benz as a new equal partner with TotalEnergies/Saft and Stellantis” has been concluded, according to the statement.\n\nUpdate 29 June 2022\n\nDetails on the timetable for Automotive Cells Company’s (ACC) third battery factory in Termoli, Italy, have emerged following a union representative meeting with Stellantis. The conversion of Stellantis’ current engine plant in Termoli into a battery factory will begin in 2024, with production to start by 2026. ACC expects the battery factory to reach total capacity in 2030 with around 2,000 employees.\n\nHowever, the schedule will also significantly impact employment at the site. Since Stellantis will phase out engine production in large parts in 2024, but battery production is not to start on a smaller scale until 2026, the union expects layoffs. According to Reuters, up to 1,000 employees will lose their job at the peak before 2,000 workers are expected to return to the plant in 2030. According to union sources, some “premium” internal combustion engines will still be built until 2026 – but with the start of battery production, that will also be the end of the line there, so that the areas can also be converted as a result.\n\nGianluca Ficco of UILM told Reuters that Stellantis had assured unions that all Termoli workers would be employed at the new Gigafactory. “This is good, but not enough, clearly we want a formal and binding commitment by ACC,” he said. “Then we’ll have to sort out how to manage temporary layoffs.” In addition to retraining, employees will be offered to work at the battery plant in Douvrin, France, for up to six months.\n\nA Stellantis spokesman confirmed to the news agency that unions had been given an update on development plans for Termoli but did not comment on the detailed information.\n\nstellantis.com, reuters.com'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Stellantis Electrification Transition in Full Swing with First ACC Battery Gigafactory Inaugurated in France', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'First Automotive Cells Company (ACC) gigafactory in the Hauts-de-France region to scale up production of high-performance batteries\n\nACC was founded by Stellantis and TotalEnergies/Saft in 2020; Mercedes-Benz became partner in 2022\n\nStellantis leverages all available battery technologies to enable clean, safe and affordable mobility as it reaches 75 battery electric vehicles (BEVs) by end of decade\n\nBattery Training Center of Douvrin established to foster upskilling and reskilling of current workforce to support Stellantis employees, among others, in career transitions to the ACC facility\n\n\n\nDOUVRIN, FRANCE – Stellantis, together with TotalEnergies and Mercedes-Benz, celebrated today the inauguration of Automotive Cells Company’s (ACC) battery gigafactory in Billy-Berclau Douvrin, France, the first of three planned in Europe.\n\nWith an initial production line capacity of 13 gigawatt-hours (GWh), rising to 40GWh by 2030, the facility will deliver high-performance lithium-ion batteries with a minimal CO 2 footprint. The first of the site’s three European production units will be operational before the end of 2023.\n\nThe gigafactory will contribute to Stellantis’ goal of increasing battery manufacturing capacity to 250 GWh in Europe by 2030 and advance the Company on its mission to offer a comprehensive suite of battery technologies that supports customers’ needs across the entire Stellantis brand portfolio. Stellantis is securing approximately 400 GWh of capacity by 2030, supported by five gigafactories in Europe and North America and additional supply contracts.\n\n“At the outset of this partnership in 2020, we agreed to an ambitious global timeline to develop electric vehicle batteries that would power our plan to electrify mobility,” said Carlos Tavares, Stellantis CEO. “As we execute our Dare Forward 2030 strategy and now move to hit our ambitious target of achieving carbon net zero by 2038, Stellantis is actively contributing to the European electrification transition with state-of-the-art EV solutions and supporting France’s crucial role in a sustainable future. I applaud every person involved in ACC for together we are building a strong coalition to strengthen Europe’s competitiveness.”\n\nThe Company now has 24 BEVs in market and will nearly double that to 47 by the end of 2024. Stellantis targets having more than 75 BEVs globally and global BEV sales of 5 million by 2030. Today, Stellantis electric vehicles the Peugeot e-208 and Fiat New 500 are among the top five best-sellers in France and in the top 10 in Europe.\n\nAs battery chemistries continuously evolve, Stellantis is exploring all technologies to meet the diverse needs of its broad customer base and ensure clean, safe and affordable mobility. Promising innovative solutions like Factorial’s solid-state battery technology and Lyten’s lithium-sulfur batteries may help enable enhanced vehicle performance and customer experience, creating a more sustainable electric vehicle experience for all.\n\nAlongside battery production, Stellantis, ACC, the Union of Metallurgies Industries, the state and region are establishing the Battery Training Center of Douvrin as part of its upskilling and reskilling program. Through a 400-hour course, Stellantis employees will acquire new skills in battery manufacturing, helping the Hauts-de-France region compete in a sector that is crucial to the electrification transition. By 2025, at least 600 employees will join the battery manufacturing plant.\n\nAs part of the Dare Forward 2030 strategic plan, Stellantis announced plans of reaching 100% of the passenger car battery electric vehicle (BEV) sales mix in Europe and 50% of passenger car and light-duty truck BEV sales mix in the United States by 2030. Stellantis is on track to become a carbon net zero corporation, all scopes included, by 2038, with single-digit percentage compensation of the remaining emissions.\n\nAbout Stellantis'}...
Article 3: {'title': "Inauguration of ACC's First Gigafactory: A European Mega-Project for Battery Production", 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': "On May 30, 2023, ACC (Automotive Cells Company) inaugurated its first gigafactory for electric vehicle batteries in Billy-Berclau/Douvrin in the Hauts-de-France region. ACC represents the culmination of the collaborative effort between TotalEnergies, Stellantis and Mercedes-Benz, and should accelerate Europe's transition towards a sustainable mobility accessible to all. Check out the infographic to find out more.\n\nFounded in 2020, ACC is a joint venture between Stellantis, Mercedes-Benz and TotalEnergies, through its affiliate Saft, which is behind the technology used by ACC. ACC is positioned as a key player in the battery industry to equip high-performance, low-carbon electric vehicles that are accessible to the greatest number of people."}...
Article 4: Network-related error scraping https://www.acc-emotion.com/media/bbd-press-release: HTTPSConnectionPool(host='www.acc-emotion.com', port=443): Max retries exceeded with url: /media/bbd-press-release (Caused by SSLError(SSLCertVerificationError(1, '[SSL: CERTIFICATE_VERIFY_FAILED] certificate verify failed: unable to get local issuer certificate (_ssl.c:997)')))...
