Article 1: {'title': 'CALB starts process for lithium battery unit in Sines', 'published_date': '2023-03-24 09:05:26+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'The Chinese manufacturer’s proposal defines that CALB’s future lithium battery factory for electric cars will be located in the Sines Industrial and Logistics Zone.\n\nThe manufacturer China Aviation Lithium Battery Technology (CALB) has already started the environmental licensing process of the construction project of the Lithium Battery Unit, in Sines, in the district of Setúbal, for electric vehicles.\n\nAt the end of February, CALB presented to the Portuguese Environment Agency (APA) a Proposal for Definition of Scope (PDA) of the Environmental Impact Study (EIA), whose public consultation runs until 20 of this month, on the Participa portal, for the installation of the lithium battery industrial unit in Sines.\n\nAccording to the APA, the phase of defining the scope of the EIA, which is prior to the evaluation process and is optional, “aims to identify, analyze and select the significant environmental aspects that may be affected by the project and on which the EIA should focus”.\n\nThe proposal, consulted by the Lusa agency, defines that CALB’s future lithium battery factory for electric cars will be located in the Industrial and Logistics Zone of Sines (ZILS), managed by aicep Global Parques.\n\n“The project aims at the construction and operation of a lithium battery production unit, on land that is part of the Industrial and Logistics Zone of Sines (ZILS)”, in an area of 100 hectares, read in the document.\n\nThe land “identified for the lithium battery factory has about 100 hectares”, and the installation of the production unit is “expected”, which will have “a capacity of 15 Gwh [Gigawatts]”, in an area “of about 50 hectares”.\n\nThe factory will be built “using technology aimed at protecting the environment and complying with applicable environmental legislation, also with a view to building a low-carbon industrial unit,” he says.\n\nThe industrial unit will have “a ‘Leed/Bream’ type certification”, using “renewable energy sources”, “water reuse” and “waste recycling”.\n\nIn a statement to the Hong Kong Stock Exchange in November 2022, CALB revealed that it had signed a memorandum of understanding with a subsidiary of the Agency for Investment and Foreign Trade of Portugal (AICEP).\n\nThe agreement with aicep Global Parques included the acquisition of “surface rights, with the aim of setting up a world-class, highly intelligent, computerized and automated factory, with zero carbon emissions,” the company said.\n\nCALB “has not yet signed a legally binding agreement”, so “the cooperation contemplated in the memorandum of understanding may or may not move forward,” he stressed.\n\nIn the memorandum of understanding, signed in November, in Sines, with aicep Global Parques, manager of ZILS, CALB demonstrated that this municipality on the Alentejo coast was “one of the privileged locations,” said, at the time, the mayor of Sines, Nuno Mascarenhas, in statements to the Lusa agency.\n\n“Sines is one of the privileged locations for CALB, since we have all the conditions here, but it is only the first intention,” said the mayor at the time.\n\nAccording to the China Automotive Power Battery Industry Innovation Alliance, an industrial association, CALB was in 2021 the third largest Chinese manufacturer of electric car batteries.'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'New Progress Made in Development of CALB’s Battery Manufacturing Base in Portugal', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'On November 2, 2022, Chinese battery supplier CALB signed a memorandum of cooperation with the Portuguese government. According to memorandum, CALB will build a major manufacturing base in Portugal as part of its expansion in Europe. Recently, new and concrete progress has been made in the implementation of this project.\n\nCALB has reportedly initiated the process of obtaining an environmental permit for the planned base, which is set to be located in the Portuguese city of Sines. According to the reporting by foreign media, CALB submitted a proposal that defies the scope of the environmental impact of the project to the relevant regulatory agencies at the end of this February.\n\nCALB said it aims to build a state-of-the-art manufacturing base in the local industrial park of Sines. The base will accommodate five plants that will be charge of producing Li-ion battery cells, producing electrodes, producing battery casings, and assembling batteries (battery packages). Spanning an area of 100 hectares, the base is set to have a production capacity of 15GWh per year.\n\nKnown as the “first gateway to Europe”, the port of Sines is a major logistics hub in the region. Its deep water port is the second largest in Europe and operates 24/7. The port is also the only one in Portugal that can receive some of the world’s largest cargo ships and is connected to the country’s largest freight railway platform. More than 5,000 container trains travel to and from the port every year, thus highlighting its critical geographical advantage.\n\nThe permit application that CALB has filed for the project reveals that the construction of the base is expected to take around 30 months, and the base is scheduled to enter operation by the end of 2025. CALB said the base will meet the huge and growing demand for EV power batteries from the European automotive industry.\n\nEstablished in 2007, CALB offers Li-ion EV power batteries, battery management systems, energy storage solutions, and materials used in Li-ion batteries. The company is able to engage in technological R&D, battery manufacturing, sales, and application development. On October 6, 2022, the company was formally listed on the Main Board of the Hong Kong Stock Exchange and thus obtained access to international capital.\n\nRegarding CALB’s overseas ventures, the company has recently entered into a supply agreement with Forsee, a well-known French brand for smart battery systems. Together, they will be providing Li-ion batteries that power buses, trucks, specialty vehicles, and even ships worldwide. Also, in July 2022, CALB reached a strategic cooperation agreement with BMZ Group that also specializes in technologies related to Li-ion batteries. Through BMZ, CALB will be able to introduce its innovative solutions to buses, trucks, agricultural machinery, construction machinery, and other kinds of commercial power systems. In sum, projects and deals such those mentioned above are enabling CALB to accelerate its global expansion.\n\nThis article is a translation of a Chinese article posted by TrendForce. It contains information that is either sourced from other news outlets or accessible in the public domain. Some Chinese names are transcribed into English using Hanyu Pinyin.'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'CALB announces plans for 2 new battery plants in China', 'published_date': '2022-01-27 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Chinese battery manufacturer CALB (China Lithium Battery Technology) has signed contracts with two cities in the southern Chinese province of Guangdong to build new production facilities. The two planned factories in Guangzhou and Jiangmen will each be designed for an annual capacity of 50 GWh.\n\nThe Guangzhou factory will be built in two phases. CALB did not provide details on this, such as the scope and schedule of the first stage. It is also open which cells CALB wants to produce there.\n\nHowever, there are indications of a potential customer for the cells from the new plant: since the e-car manufacturer Xpeng has its headquarters in Guangzhou, it is suspected that CALB could also supply Xpeng with battery cells in the future – at least that is what the portal CN EV Post speculates. The background is also a report by the portal 36kr from last month, according to which Xpeng wants to reduce its dependence on CATL as its main supplier.\n\nCALB currently has seven production sites in Changzhou, Luoyang, Xiamen, Chengdu, Wuhan, Hefei and Heilongjiang with a planned capacity of 200 GWh for 2022. A few months ago, CALB had announced the expansion of its production capacity to initially 300 GWh by 2025 and later increased this target to 500 GWh by 2025 and 1,000 GWh by 2030. CALB is also planning a factory in Europe.\n\ncnevpost.com, gasgoo.com'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'CALB Introduces U-Shaped Battery Technology', 'published_date': '2023-05-03 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': "Sign up for daily news updates from CleanTechnica on email. Or follow us on Google News\n\nCALB is a Chinese battery manufacturer that wants to compete with the much larger and well known CATL. It has a long way to go. CATL has about a third of the global battery market. CALB has only a 3.7% market share, but thinks it has a tiger by the tail with its latest battery technology — the U-shaped battery.\n\nIf you look at the photos from CALB, it’s hard to understand what all the hoopla is about. Its battery cells look like any other battery cells you have ever seen. But according to BatteryIndustry.tech, until now, round cells for electric cars had their positive and negative poles at opposite ends of the cell housing. For those who are technology challenged, the “U shape” part of the description describes the path electrons follow within the battery, not the shape of the exterior housing.\n\nWith the “U-structure,” CALB installs both the plus and the minus pole at one end of the housing. The positive pole is in the middle and slightly elevated, where it normally is, but the negative pole is on the outside. For integration into a battery module or pack, this means the round cell is treated more like a prismatic cell with both poles on one end of the housing.\n\nWhile CALB has not released any details about the structure inside its new cells with the “U-structure,” it does say that they feature new chemistries and that electrical current “flow paths” have been reduced by 70%. That in turn has the effect of reducing the internal resistance of the cell by 50%, according to the company.\n\nA lower internal resistance also means the cell heats up less — an important factor in fast charging, for example. CALB states that the new round cell can be charged at up to 6C, and CNEvPost says that means it can be fully recharged in just ten minutes.\n\nThe 6C charging rate is presumed to apply to the NMC variant of the “U-structure” cell, which has an energy density of 300 Wh/kg. There will also be LFP and LMFP versions of the new battery cells from CALB and those will have an energy density of 200 Wh/kg.\n\nWhile the 300 Wh/kg and the 6C charging rate should be interesting for high end vehicles, the “U-structure” is said to offer another advantage, one which will be important in making electric cars that cost less. CALB vice president Xie Qiu told the China EV 100 Forum last month that compared to tabless round cells such as Tesla’s 4680 cells, the production line for the new cells requires about 70% fewer welding machines in the production line for this battery. Fewer machines should mean less expensive batteries.\n\n“We have made a disruptive innovation to the structure of the cylindrical battery by introducing the U type structure,” Xie Qiu is quoted as saying. While the tabless structure solves some of the current path problems, treating the cell shell as a conductive component results in a relatively long path for current flow, he said. The newly developed “U-structure” is supposed to do this much better. However, it is not known when CALB plans to go into series production with this new type of cell.\n\nXie added that treating the shell of a battery cell as a conductive component results in a relatively long path for the current to flow through. Most battery shells are made of steel, which is not a particularly good conductor of electricity. He also indicated the new cells from CALB are about 3% more space efficient.\n\nTabless, 4680, & Qilin Batteries\n\nThe pace of research and development in batteries is torrid these days, as the transition to electric transportation gains momentum. Tesla started things off by introducing large format 4680 battery cells — 46 mm in diameter by 80 mm long — which it claims are more energy-dense than the 2170 cells it has been using for years. Tesla has also introduced so-called “tabless” batteries that also can charge and discharge faster. As my colleague Alex Voigt said back in 2020, tabless batteries promote the rapid flow of electrons, which reduces charging times and creates less heat as well.\n\nCATL, of course, is not standing idly by during all this innovation frenzy. It has just started production of its so-called Qilin battery, which the company says has 13% more energy density than the Tesla 4680 battery and can power an EV for up to 1000 kilometers. CATL claims an energy density for the Qilin battery of 255 Wh/kg and says that is higher than what Tesla is getting from its 4680 batteries. Tesla would probably disagree with that if Tesla actually spoke to the press.\n\nAccording to CnEVPost, in the cell-to-pack arrangement used for the new Qilin batteries, CATL has quadrupled the heat transfer area by placing the liquid cooling element — which is typically found at the bottom of the battery cells — between the cells instead. This allows for faster charging times, better thermal control of cell temperatures, and faster warmup of the battery cells in cold weather for better performance.\n\nThe new design supports a fast hot start in 5 minutes and charging to 80% in 10 minutes, CATL says. In extreme conditions, the cells can be cooled down rapidly, effectively blocking abnormal heat transfer between cells and reducing the chance of thermal runaway events (fires, to us non-technical types).\n\nIf the CALB announcement is to be believed, its U-shaped cells have a significantly higher energy density than CATL can manage. Not surprisingly, CATL is suing CALB , claiming the smaller company is guilty of poaching battery engineers and using its proprietary knowledge to gain a competitive advantage.\n\nThe Takeaway\n\nWhatever you knew about the latest in battery technology this morning will probably be obsolete by this evening. There is a lot of money and prestige on the line these days for any company that can build a battery that has a higher energy density and/or lower manufacturing costs. The ultimate winners will be the consumers, who get to drive less expensive electric cars that can go farther and suffer less performance degradation when ambient temperatures dip below freezing.\n\nPolitically, Chinese companies control much of the battery manufacturing space, and that’s a problem for the rest of the world, particularly America and Europe, which slept through the first two decades of the new century thinking that outsourcing and globalization were the greatest things since sliced bread and ice cream.\n\nThe pace of innovation will only increase as governments pour more money into incentives. The batteries that will power new electric vehicles in 2030 have not even been invented yet. Although the pace of change is dizzying, the rewards of living on a greener planet will make all the disruptions along the way worthwhile.\n\nHave a tip for CleanTechnica? Want to advertise? Want to suggest a guest for our CleanTech Talk podcast? CleanTechnica Holiday Wish Book Have a tip for CleanTechnica? Want to advertise? Want to suggest a guest for our CleanTech Talk podcast? Contact us here Click to download. Our Latest EVObsession Video I don't like paywalls. You don't like paywalls. Who likes paywalls? Here at CleanTechnica, we implemented a limited paywall for a while, but it always felt wrong — and it was always tough to decide what we should put behind there. In theory, your most exclusive and best content goes behind a paywall. But then fewer people read it!! So, we've decided to completely nix paywalls here at CleanTechnica. But... Like other media companies, we need reader support! If you support us, please chip in a bit monthly to help our team write, edit, and publish 15 cleantech stories a day! Thank you! Advertisement CleanTechnica uses affiliate links. See our policy here"}...
