Article 1: {'title': 'CATL announces its second European battery plant in Hungary', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': ''}...
Article 2: {'title': 'CATL begins operations at new battery facility capable of producing one cell per second', 'published_date': '2023-10-30 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'CATL, the world’s largest battery maker, is now becoming the fastest as well, thanks to state-of-the-art production lines at its new battery base in China. The developer says its new assembly lines can produce a battery cell per second and an entire EV battery pack in under three minutes.\n\nCATL remains the undisputed leader in EV battery development, not only in China, where it is headquartered, but around the world. Despite a slight drop in net profits in Q3 of this year, CATL looks like it will maintain its crown in 2024 as the largest shareholder in the battery market – a title it has already held for six straight years.\n\nCATL’s share of over 30% of the entire market is no accident either. It continues to develop and produce some of the most advanced battery tech out there. Its energy-dense Qilin batteries have begun rolling out within ZEEKR EVs out of China, and we’ve even seen the company look to the skies by developing cells to support all-electric aviation.\n\nThe company has even introduced its own EV startup alongside Chinese tech company Huawei. In August, the company introduced a lithium-iron-phosphate (LFP) cell called ShenXing – capable of recouping 400km (249 miles) of range during a single 10-minute fast charge.\n\nAs CATL’s battery lineup continues to expand, so has its global production footprint. Just recently, the company began operations at a new production base in China, with assembly speeds that should help it keep a leg up on the competition.\n\nCredit: Shi Zhaochang/Xinhua\n\nCATL’s opens new highly automated battery base in China\n\nAccording to a press release from CATL, operations commenced at the new battery facility located in the Guian New District of southwest China’s Guizhou province on October 27. The location is CATL’s latest home to power and energy storage battery production.\n\nThe 235+ acre site will eventually support two phases of the production base, the first of which is now complete and designed to deliver an annual production capacity of 30 GWh. CATL states that the first phase of the battery production base costs approximately RMB 7 billion ($957 million) and utilizes an advanced production line with an automation rate of 95%, delivering “a high production pace and high flexibility.”\n\nSpeaking of high pace, CATL relayed that the process from material feeding to a finished battery product is down to one cell per second and one entire battery pack in 2.5 minutes. When phase two is complete, CATL’s battery production capacity in Guizhou is expected to double to 60 GWh.\n\nThere is no timeline yet on when that next phase will begin construction.'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'CATL announces its second European battery plant in Debrecen, Hungary', 'published_date': '2022-08-12 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Contemporary Amperex Technology Co., Limited (CATL) officially announced it will invest 7.34 billion euros to build a 100 GWh battery plant in Debrecen of east Hungary, which is also its second battery plant in Europe following its German plant. Subject to the shareholder meeting approval, construction of the first production facilities will start within this year.\n\nCovering an area of 221 hectares in the Southern Industrial Park of Debrecen, the project will supply both cells and modules to European automakers.\n\nDebrecen is located at the heart of Europe, and with close proximity to some auto plants of its customers such as Mercedes-Benz, BMW, Stellantis and Volkswagen, CATL’s Debrecen plant will enable it to better cope with the battery demands of the European market, improve its global production network development, and help accelerate e-mobility and energy transition in Europe.\n\nAs part of its commitment to reducing the carbon footprint in battery manufacturing, CATL will use electricity from renewable energies, and is considering developing solar power with local partners in the country.\n\nTo build a sustainable and circular battery value chain, CATL is also examining the possibility of joining forces with local partners to establish facilities for battery materials in Europe.\n\n“There is no doubt that our plant in Debrecen will enable us to further sharpen our competitive edge, better respond to our European customers, and accelerate the transition to e-mobility in Europe,” said Dr. Robin Zeng, founder and Chairman of CATL. “The greenfield project in Hungary will be a giant leap in CATL’s global expansion, and also an important step in our efforts to make an outstanding contribution to the green energy drive for humankind.”\n\nPéter Szijjártó, Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, said: “Both the global and the European economies have been faced with tremendous challenges recently. We in Hungary have a clear goal to be a local exception from the continental recession. The best tool to achieve this goal is to attract state-of-the-art investments in the most revolutionary branch of the automotive industry, namely electromobility. We are proud that CATL decided to execute the biggest ever greenfield investment in the history of Hungary. We have recently become one of the leading battery production sites of the world and with this huge investment we further strengthen our position.”\n\nThe new project was well received from CATL’s European customers. Markus Schäfer, Member of the Board of Management of Mercedes-Benz Group AG, CTO responsible for development and procurement, said: “This new state-of-the art European CATL plant in Hungary is another milestone for the scale-up of our EV production together with our key partners. With CATL we have a technology-leader as our partner to provide us - as the first and biggest customer of the new plant’s initial capacity - with top-notch CO2 neutral battery cells for our next generation EVs in Europe, hence following our local-to-local approach in procurement. We’re proud to see our Ambition 2039 supported by CATL’s commitment to CO2 neutral production in Hungary.”'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'CATL To Build $7.6 Billion 100 GWh Battery Factory In Hungary', 'published_date': '2022-08-14 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': "Sign up for daily news updates from CleanTechnica on email. Or follow us on Google News\n\nAt the end of last year, CATL, the world’s largest battery manufacturer, had an annual production capacity of 170 GWh. It has plans to increase that to 670 GWh by 2025, according to Reuters. A major part of that expansion of capacity will come from a new $7.6 billion battery factory to be located on 221 hectares (546 acres) in the Southern Industrial Park in the city of Debrecen in Hungary. The project will supply both cells and modules to European automakers, including Mercedes, BMW, Volkswagen, and Stellantis according to a joint press release by the company and officials in Hungary.\n\nAs part of its commitment to reducing the carbon footprint of battery manufacturing, CATL will use electricity from renewable energies and will work with local partners to develop solar power and battery material suppliers both locally and throughout Europe.\n\n“There is no doubt that our plant in Debrecen will enable us to further sharpen our competitive edge, better respond to our European customers, and accelerate the transition to e-mobility in Europe,” said Dr. Robin Zeng, founder and chairman of CATL. “The greenfield project in Hungary will be a giant leap in CATL’s global expansion, and also an important step in our efforts to make an outstanding contribution to the green energy drive for humankind.”\n\nHungary is becoming a major hub for electric vehicles and batteries in Europe. Debrecen is home to a plant being built by BMW, while Audi has a factory in Gyor in western Hungary’ and Mercedes-Benz has a factory in Kecskemet, in the central part of the country.\n\nPéter Szijjártó, Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs and Trade, added, “Both the global and the European economies have been faced with tremendous challenges recently. We in Hungary have a clear goal to be a local exception from the continental recession. The best tool to achieve this goal is to attract state of the art investments in the most revolutionary branch of the automotive industry, namely electromobility. We are proud that CATL decided to execute the biggest ever greenfield investment in the history of Hungary. We have recently become one of the leading battery production sites of the world and with this huge investment we further strengthen our position.”\n\nMarkus Schäfer, chief technical officer for Mercedes, said, “This new state of the art European CATL plant in Hungary is another milestone for the scale-up of our EV production together with our key partners. With CATL we have a technology leader as our partner to provide us — as the first and biggest customer of the new plant’s initial capacity — with top notch CO2 neutral battery cells for our next generation EVs in Europe, hence following our local to local approach in procurement. We’re proud to see our Ambition 2039 supported by CATL’s commitment to CO2 neutral production in Hungary.”\n\nOne question the press release does not answer is whether the battery cells produced at the new factory will use NMC or LFP chemistries. A good guess is that the correct answer is “both.” BMW may prefer NMC cells because they support higher performance levels while Volkswagen may choose LFP batteries for models that compete directly with Tesla, which is getting ready to begin offering a new version of the Model Y built in Germany that will use LFP Blade batteries from BYD.\n\nWhat About CATL And North America?\n\nThis news raises the question, what plans does CATL have for new factories in North America? The US has just passed a new law known as the Inflation Reduction Act which makes it abundantly clear that batteries and battery components sourced from China will not be eligible for the EV tax credits included in that legislation. Europe seems much less concerned with such matters.\n\nWe reported recently that CATL was considering sites in Mexico and the US for a new North American factory, but the kerfuffle over Nancy Pelosi’s visit to Taiwan may have delayed any decision. Reuters reports that a source with knowledge of the situation says CATL had not changed its plan to start local battery production for North America from 2026. The expansion is expected to provide EV batteries for Ford, BMW, and potentially other automakers, including Tesla.\n\nCATL plans to supply LFP battery cells to Ford for its second-generation F-150 Lightning electric pickup truck, but there are no reports (yet) of BMW using LFP cells. It seems likely CATL’s new factories will be capable of producing whatever battery cells its customers require to meet shifting market demands and supply chain variables.\n\nHave a tip for CleanTechnica? Want to advertise? Want to suggest a guest for our CleanTech Talk podcast? CleanTechnica Holiday Wish Book Have a tip for CleanTechnica? Want to advertise? Want to suggest a guest for our CleanTech Talk podcast? Contact us here Click to download. Our Latest EVObsession Video I don't like paywalls. You don't like paywalls. Who likes paywalls? Here at CleanTechnica, we implemented a limited paywall for a while, but it always felt wrong — and it was always tough to decide what we should put behind there. In theory, your most exclusive and best content goes behind a paywall. But then fewer people read it!! So, we've decided to completely nix paywalls here at CleanTechnica. But... Like other media companies, we need reader support! If you support us, please chip in a bit monthly to help our team write, edit, and publish 15 cleantech stories a day! Thank you! Advertisement CleanTechnica uses affiliate links. See our policy here"}...
