Article 1: {'title': 'Italvolt – Electrifying the future', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Italvolt has made a strategic decision to locate its battery cell factory in Italy, the country where Alessandro Volta invented the battery in 1800. Today, Italy holds significant opportunity for the modern battery industry, with its strategic location and highly skilled workforce.\n\nItaly has a rich industrial heritage, especially as a hub of Europe’s automotive industry, offering access to a large, skilled workforce. The country’s geographical position offers access to key global markets, sitting at a strategic intersection of the east-west and north-south Mediterranean corridors.\n\nItalvolt intends to honour Italy’s important industrial legacy by supporting the country’s green industrialisation ambitions, and by delivering battery cells which will help drive decarbonisation across a variety of industries.\n\nItalvolt’s 45GWh battery plant will be the Italy’s largest, independent, battery cell factory. The battery cell factory will focus on creating new opportunities for re-skilling and upskilling workers from Italy’s automotive industry.\n\nItalvolt will seek to create new centres of excellence based on advanced engineering and will focus on re-establishing Italy as a leading force in the modern industrial era, while supporting the wider transition to sustainable, battery powered solutions.'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Italvolt chooses the former Olivetti area of Scarmagno to build Italy’s first Gigafactory – Italvolt', 'published_date': '2021-02-18 15:45:00+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Italvolt, founded and led by Lars Carlstrom, the businessman who has been pioneering the automotive industry with over 30 years of experience, announces they have chosen Scarmagno, where the Olivetti industrial area once stood, to build the first Gigafactory in Italy. The factory will be dedicated to the production and storage of lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles. The first stage of the project, envisaging an overall investment of approximately 4 billion Euros, will be completed by Spring of 2024.\n\nThe former Olivetti area in Scarmagno, owned by the Monteverdi Fund managed by Prelios SGR, was selected by Italvolt because of its especially favorable technical features and strategic geographical position. Today, the site is a large decommissioned industrial lot that stands on an area of about 1 million square meters, chosen in the past for Olivetti by architects Marco Zanuso and Eduardo Vittoria because of its excellent road and rail connections with Ivrea and with the city of Turin. Another factor that makes Scarmagno ideal for Italvolt’s project is its strong bond with the productive capability of Piedmont, the leading region in Italy in automotive industrial production.\n\nItalvolt’s Gigafactory, with its 300,000 m2 of floor space and an initial capacity of 45 GWh, is an important opportunity for the economic and industrial rebirth of the Scarmagno area and will have a significant impact on the region as well. It is estimated, in fact, that the plant will employ 4,000 workers and will create up to another 15,000 new jobs in allied activities.\n\nThe new plant, designed to be easily capable of meeting the growing demand for batteries in Europe that is expected to increase 17 times to approx. 3,600 gigawatt (GWh) by 2030, will be designed by the Architecture Division of Pininfarina, the iconic automotive design brand that has just recently celebrated its 90 years of activity and is already participating in other similarly large projects. With a strong focus on environmental and social impact, Pininfarina intends to develop a new-generation, intelligent and responsible industrial plant by applying DFMA construction methods and by opening the building out to its surroundings, making it merge into the economic and social fabric of the region. Comau, a world leader in industrial automation, with over 45 years of experience and strongly specialized in electrification processes, will be the supplier of innovative solutions, systems and technologies for the gigaplant.\n\nComau will also see to the construction of the Research & Development center that will be home to academic and industrial partners committed to the development of the most forward-thinking technologies in the electric mobility sector.\n\nLars Carlstrom, CEO and founder of Italvolt, claimed: “The support of the Piedmont Region, of the local government authorities and of the trade associations in the last eight months has been key to our decision-making process. We are especially happy with the opportunity of starting our project in Piedmont where we have found the perfect combination of factors that I believe are necessary for furthering the transition towards green industrialization: solid industrial tradition and highly specialized technological know-how in the automotive sector. Last but not least, we are honored that we will be able to build our Gigafactory in the Scarmagno area that was once occupied by the Olivetti industrial complex, a company that has written an important page of Italy’s industrial history and that today is still an icon of Made in Italy technology”.'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'Italvolt signs Memorandum of Understanding for the Gigafactory of Scarmagno and Romano Canavese – Italvolt', 'published_date': '2022-04-21 13:33:44+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'The Memorandum of Understanding (MoU) for the project was presented by Italvolt S.p.A., the company founded by Swedish entrepreneur Lars Carlstrom, and signed today at the Piedmont Region headquarters.\n\nThe purpose of the MoU is to coordinate the actions and procedures of the signatories – the Piedmont Region, the Metropolitan City of Turin and the municipalities of Scarmagno, Romano Canavese and Ivrea – to ensure efficient administrative action concerning the construction of the Gigafactory, which will be built on the former Olivetti site in Scarmagno and Romano Canavese.\n\nThe Italvolt project plans to start the production of lithium-ion batteries in the second half of 2024 and it expects to employ up to 3,000 employees, on a total area of 1,000,000m2 to deliver a production capacity of 45 GWh. The Gigafactory of Scarmagno and Romano Canavese will secure Piedmont’s position as a hub for green industrialization and sustainable mobility, making Italy one of the largest producers of lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles and energy storage in Europe.\n\n“After the presentation of the preliminary project and the subsequent authorization obtained at the beginning of 2022, the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding confirms the progress of a project that is proceeding rapidly thanks to constant collaboration with all the local authorities. Respecting the shared timeline will lead us to become one of the first players in Europe to start production, thus ensuring Italvolt’s key role in the EV industry,” said Lars Carlstrom, Italvolt Founder and CEO.\n\n“The signing of this protocol,” commented Piedmont Region President Alberto Cirio and Councillor for Economic Development Andrea Tronzano, “is a clear demonstration of how the Gigafactory in Scarmagno is becoming increasingly concrete. A punctual timetable that marks the approach of a project that will bring the benefits: development and employment; two fundamental successes for the territory and the Piedmontese economy in the strategic sectors, technology and automotive. This protocol is a classic example of the collaboration of a Piedmontese system that can grow and has a future.\n\n“Città Metropolitana di Torino will play a crucial role in the plant’s authorisation process,” says Sonia Cambursano, the councillor responsible for economic development, “in synergy with the Piedmont Region and the municipalities. For us, networking is the best way to develop the area. In this project we see the possibility of achieving the objectives of employment and development in the Canavese area, but also of encouraging sustainable energy for mobility”.\n\n“With the founder of Italvolt,” commented Stefano Sertoli, Mayor of the Municipality of Ivrea, “right from the first meeting in Ivrea, there was an immediate understanding that gave rise to a relationship of mutual respect and constant dialogue. I can only be pleased that the other entities involved, once they shared the project, also started an effective collaboration. The Memorandum of Understanding represents a fundamental step towards meeting the timetable for the realisation of an industrial plan that will mark an epoch-making step for our territory. The chosen location is certainly strategic, on the road axis leading from Italy to the centre of Europe. I am proud that this can go ahead”.\n\nElisabetta Piccoli, Deputy Mayor of the Municipality of Ivrea, added: “I have witnessed the birth of this very important project for our territory and the signing of the protocol makes me very happy because it represents a concrete action of synergy between the authorities that must proceed quickly alongside determined and courageous entrepreneurs like Lars Carlstrom. The increase of 3,000 jobs and the allied industries it would create is a goal we are all working towards together and in which we believe”.\n\n“I believe I was the first mayor to meet Lars Carlstrom and Italvolt,” says Adriano Grassino, Mayor of the Municipality of Scarmagno. “I was struck by his determination and the project that he managed to get across in his words. The first question I asked him was about safety and the environment. The answer was comprehensive and immediate. He had already asked the question and found the solution by putting the issue at the forefront. Words were followed by deeds. The determination to proceed with the construction of the Gigafactory gradually took shape until the relevant entities agreed on the Memorandum of Understanding and the timetable, which is fundamental and indispensable for the construction of the industrial complex within a reasonable timeframe. An important and necessary project to restart the engine of the Canavese economy and the great and complex driving machine, the Piedmont Region. With Italvolt, Scarmagno would return to being one of the leading players in the national economy and perhaps even beyond its borders. A new and powerful boost would be given to employment and well-being in an exhausted area that absolutely needs it”.\n\n“The Municipality of Romano Canavese”, commented Mayor Oscarino Ferrero, “considers the signing of the Memorandum of Understanding for the Italvolt Gigafactory to be an important moment for the development of a new economic reality and for the relaunch of the Canavese area which, despite having always been considered prosperous and home to large national companies, has recently suffered a loss of social and employment opportunities”.\n\nIn particular, given the significance and complexity of the project, the MoU provides for the establishment of a Technical Table of Coordination that will be chaired by a delegate of the Region with the task of coordinating and supporting the various institutional offices involved, with a view to efficient administrative action. In addition, considering the relevant public interest of the project and the timeframe for the start of production planned by Italvolt by 2024, the signatories are committed to make every reasonable effort to complete the procedure within seven months from the submission of the application, expected by June 2022.\n\nThe Piedmont Region, on behalf of all signatories, will also intensify the talks already started with the Ministry of Economic Development and other competent Ministries, in order to work alongside Italvolt in the identification of support and financing measures for the project, including those provided by the PNRR.\n\nItalvolt itself adheres to the Memorandum of Understanding, as proponent of the initiative and the project. The Ivrea SUAP (Sportello unico attività produttive) is the body delegated to carry out the urban planning and building procedures related to the project and falling under the competence of the municipalities of Scarmagno and Romano Canavese.'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'Italvolt to build the first Gigafactory in Italy – Italvolt', 'published_date': '2021-02-15 15:38:00+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Italvolt, founded and led by Lars Carlstrom, the businessman who has been pioneering the automotive industry with over 30 years of experience and a former founder and stockholder of Britishvolt, is poised to build the first Gigafactory in Italy. The factory is destined to become the largest of its kind in Europe\n\nand 12th in the world by size, with its 300,000 m2 of floor space and an initial capacity of 45 GWh. With an estimated 4,000 workers hired and 10,000 jobs created, the Italvolt Gigafactory is one of Italy’s most important projects in recent years, envisaging an overall investment of approximately 4 billion Euros.\n\nThe first stage of the project will be completed by Spring of 2024.\n\nThe first step of the project involves the identification of the area where the plant will be built, at the end of the due diligence activity currently underway on some selected sites at national level. To bring such a challenging project to completion, Lars Carlstrom has chosen Italy, the country renowned throughout the world for its excellence in creating innovative work in the field of technological research and for its long-standing leading role in the automotive industry at international level.\n\nThe new plant’s output will be capable of significantly contributing to the growing demand for batteries in Europe, mostly driven by the automotive industry, that will increase 17 times to approx. 3,600 gigawatt (GWh) by 2030, with an expected demand from the European Union of 565 GWh, second only to China’s expected demand of 1,548 GWh1.\n\nItalvolt’s Gigafactory will be designed by the Architecture Division of Pininfarina, the iconic automotive design brand that has just recently celebrated its 90 years of activity and is already participating in other similarly large projects. With a strong focus on environmental and social impact, Pininfarina intends to develop a new-generation, intelligent and responsible industrial plant by applying DFMA construction methods and by opening the building out to its surroundings, making it merge into the economic and social fabric of the region.\n\nComau, a world leader in industrial automation, with over 45 years of experience and strongly specialized in electrification processes, will be the supplier of innovative solutions, systems and technologies for the gigaplant. Comau will also see to the construction of the Research & Development center that will be home to academic and industrial partners committed to the development of the most forward-thinking technologies in the electric vehicles sector.\n\nLars Carlstrom, CEO and founder of Italvolt, claimed: “With its Gigafactory project, Italvolt intends to seize the historical opportunity for green industrialization that is affecting all production sectors across the board, with a socio-economic impact that will recharge the global economy. The industrial ‘green transition’ is a favorite goal of mine and I am sure that with the launching of Italvolt this passion will take shape. I strongly believe that our team of highly qualified engineers and technicians will produce the most environment-friendly batteries not only in Europe but in the whole world. Our aim is to ensure the future of the automotive industry and guarantee that the supply chain be as green as possible, from start to finish. The socio-economic impact that this new green industrialization is introducing is a turning point for the world”.'}...
Article 5: {'title': 'Italvolt gigafactory: hype or ripe?', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': "Summary Launched in early 2021, Italvolt's battery gigafactory promised to regenerate an abandoned industrial area in Piedmont, northern Italy, create 4000 jobs and mobilise €3.5bn of investment.\n\nAlmost two years into the project, the company has yet to complete the purchase of the land, apply for building permits, unlock financing and announce its technological partner.\n\nFounder Lars Carlstrom, who launched Italvolt after leaving Britishvolt, is still buoyant. He also launched Statevolt, a new gigafactory project in California.\n\nWith similar delays affecting other gigafactories across the region, the young European battery industry is already facing a credibility issue as results have yet to match initial ambitions.\n\nWhen Lars Carlstrom showed up in Scarmagno, in northern Italy, with plans to build one of the largest gigafactories in Europe from the ashes of manufacturer Olivetti’s burned-down site, his odds appeared solid.\n\nIt was early 2021; capital was cheap and abundant, the switch to electric vehicles (EVs) was underway and gigafactories were on everybody’s lips. Mild and soft-spoken, Mr Carlstrom embodied the values that Swedish brands have come to be known for – transparency, reliability and sustainability. The future 45 gigawatt hour (GWh), €3.5bn factory designed by Pininfarina, Italy’s best-known automotive designer, along with the promise of 4000 direct jobs, were the icing on the cake. For a community that had been trying to regenerate for years, it was a no-brainer. Everyone jumped on the bandwagon.\n\nAdvertisement\n\n“Abandoned for decades, this area will return to being a source of jobs and wealth,” Alberto Cirio, the president of the Piedmont region, of which Scarmagno is a part, said in February 2021 as the project took its first steps.\n\nAlmost two years into the project, the area lies abandoned with no sign of progress. As of December 1, Mr Carlstrom is yet to complete the purchase of the site, apply for building permits and unlock financing. Long-awaited and long-promised details on his technological partner are still pending, too.\n\nAll around, the wind has shifted: interest rates are rising, economic uncertainties are slowing down the uptake of EVs and competing gigafactory projects have popped up all over Europe.\n\nUnfazed by it all, Mr Carlstrom is as optimistic as ever: “It’s all good,” he tells fDi. He even doubled down in April by launching Statevolt, another gigafactory project, in California. The plot seems similar: big ambitions, but few confirmed details.\n\n“In an industry where scale is important, being seen as a big player is important to attract investment,” says Jon Ferris, head of flexibility and storage at research and consulting firm LCP Delta. “But being able to deliver, particularly the first project, is needed to back that up.”\n\nIn an industry where scale is important, being seen as a big player is important to attract investment. Advertisement Jon Ferris, head of flexibility and storage, LCP Delta\n\n‘My guess is as good as yours’\n\nThe term ‘gigafactory’ was coined by Elon Musk when he built the world’s first, in Nevada in 2014. ‘Giga’ is short for ‘gigawatts’ — the typical measure of production capacity at these facilities, but it also captures the enormous scale of these projects. Gigafactories maximise economies of scale and produce in a competitive fashion.\n\nBehind a gigafactory there is always a big vision, and Mr Carlstrom certainly does not lack for that.\n\n“I am a big fan of industrialisation and job creation,” he says in an interview on November 21. “I like to affect change. That’s why we’re choosing areas in decline where our projects can have a huge impact.”\n\nWhat he seems to be lacking is technical expertise in the automotive or chemical industry, although his résumé features experiences in several investment holdings and start-ups over the past 30 years. He himself believes the nascent European battery industry remains a level playing field, regardless of anyone’s background.\n\n“This is a very young industry, where no one really knows how to do things the right way,” he says. “Not even the original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) know which is the way to go. When it comes to batteries, no one knows. So, my guess is as good as yours.”\n\nWhen it comes to batteries, no one knows. So my guess is as good as yours. Lars Carlstrom\n\nHe proved this when he co-founded Britishvolt in 2019, the gigafactory in north-east England that was expected to stand at the heart of the UK’s switch to electric mobility. The idea behind this was inspired by a magazine he was reading on a train, when he stumbled upon an article pointing out the need for the UK to set up a gigafactory to rescue the ailing car industry.\n\nBritishvolt had wind in its sails right away. The £3.8bn, 30GWh project captured the imagination of many, to the point that it received a £100m public grant by the government-backed Automotive Transformation Fund to develop its vision. The grant unlocked further financing by logistics real estate fund manager Tritax and its majority shareholder, investment company Abrdn, who put together a £1.7bn private funding package for Britishvolt to develop the site in Blyth.\n\n“Backed by government and private sector investment, this new battery factory will boost the production of EVs in the UK, whilst levelling up opportunity and bringing thousands of new highly skilled jobs to communities in our industrial heartlands,” then prime minister Boris Johnson said in January 2022.\n\nHowever, things took a wrong turn a few months later, when the company ran out of cash as it missed the milestones set by its backers. It was eventually extended a financial lifeline by commodities trader Glencore in early November, but all its shortcomings came to light: no proven technology, no major customers and a ballooning payroll.\n\nIts financial backers jumped ship.\n\n“The deployment of any investment was subject to certain conditions and milestones,” an Abrdn spokesperson tells fDi. “These have not been met by Britishvolt, which means we put on hold further investor discussions. No finance has been released or committed by Abrdn (nor Tritax) for the development of the site.”\n\nWhatever the future holds for Britishvolt, Mr Carlstrom is not concerned.\n\nHe left the company in December 2020 as the British national and local press picked up on the fact that he had been convicted for tax fraud in Sweden in the 1990s. He argues that the issue had nothing to do with his exit, and he just left because he had “severe collaboration issues” with his partners.\n\nBooming EVs, nascent batteries\n\nMr Carlstrom and Britishvolt parted ways at a time when the switch to EVs was starting to gain momentum across Europe.\n\nMajor European automakers reset their strategies and announced bold investment campaigns to electrify their production base as the EU unveiled its new ‘green deal’ — a set of policies aimed at making the bloc carbon-neutral by 2050. The market share of EVs in the EU jumped from about 3% in 2019 to above 10% of total registration of new cars in 2020 and almost reached 18% in 2021, according to figures from the European Environment Agency.\n\nOverall, the European EV market is forecast to grow annually by 44.6% between 2022 and 2029, raising its total value from $147.6bn in 2022 to $1.95tn in 2029, according to estimates by research firm Research and Markets, published on November 28.\n\nWhile Europe has had a traditionally strong automotive industry, it continues to lack a battery industry. China has gained a strong leadership in EV batteries over the years precisely because it struggled to compete in the European- and Japanese-dominated internal combustion engine powertrain market. Beijing also controls much of the value chain of the critical minerals needed for the production of EV batteries — the industrial processing of EV critical minerals is almost exclusively located in China, giving its producers major leverage over their European challengers.\n\n“I don’t think that in the short-term, Europe can challenge China’s leadership with regards to battery technology, costs and environmental impact,” Andrea Taschini, an independent automotive consultant, tells fDi. “As a matter of fact, 80% of the batteries used by OEMs in the EU are produced in China, with critical materials sourced in China. I struggle to understand why China should allow European producers to access processed critical minerals and risk losing the production of the final product itself.”\n\nBenchmark Mineral Intelligence, a specialist information provider for the EV supply chain, estimated earlier this year that China is on course to have 3733GWh of lithium-ion battery cell capacity by 2031, more than double the total capacity (1721GWh) expected in the rest of the world.\n\nHowever, European policy-makers naturally saw the development of a local battery industry as a way to secure the switch to electric mobility, while breathing new life into the ailing European automotive industry.\n\nAnd thanks to generous incentive schemes — a rarity in a region that has long waged war against most sorts of state aid — dozens of proposed gigafactory projects popped up all over the region. At least 20 such projects with an annual capacity of more than 30GWh have been announced across Europe — up from a handful before the pandemic. Construction at Swedish Northvolt One, which is considered the first European gigafactory, started in October 2019 and it first delivered lithium-ion battery cells to a leading carmaker in May 2022.\n\nThese mushrooming European gigafactories are being developed by several actors: established Asian players, European OEMs and independent battery start-ups.\n\nWhile most of them are in central and eastern Europe and Scandinavia, there are exceptions. Among them stands Italvolt, the gigafactory project Mr Carlstrom devoted himself to as soon as he left Britishvolt, and one of the few such endeavours being undertaken in southern Europe.\n\nPieces falling into place?\n\nThe 300,000 square metre site in Scarmagno Mr Carlstrom picked for his project is charged with historic value, both for those in the area and beyond. For decades, Olivetti, once Italy’s biggest tech company, produced typewriters and desktop computers there, creating tens of thousands of direct and indirect jobs along the way. The whole local economy was anchored to Olivetti’s fortune. The company’s slow decline that started in the mid-1980s inevitably dragged the local cluster down. Eventually, the site in Scarmagno shut down in 2013, ingloriously terminated by a fire that has made the area inaccessible ever since, as it waits to be cleaned up and reclaimed.\n\nIts ruins stand as a bitter reminder of the ebbs and flows the local community has experienced since the site was built in 1960. But not for Mr Carlstrom, who saw the opportunity right away.\n\n“The Italian automotive industry is rooted in that area,” he says, referring to the cluster that developed around Fiat, now Stellantis, in nearby Turin since the beginning of the 20th century. “Many quality companies are located there, and we can easily get to markets and clients in France and Germany. Besides, with our gigafactory, we can save thousands of jobs that will necessarily disappear as we transition to EVs. We will have access to many skilled workers.”\n\nThere is a catch, though. The site is heavily contaminated with asbestos.\n\nThis is no secret — the issue was part of lengthy criminal proceedings against Olivetti’s former management in the 2010s. Now, the clean-up is the only outstanding issue left for Italvolt to deal with. The company’s consultants initially underestimated the reclamation costs, according to Mr Carlstrom, whereas an updated estimate increased the cost tenfold, putting it between €60m and €100m.\n\n“The price [for the land acquisition] is not the thing, because we are not paying much for it,” says Mr Carlstrom, who notes he has already reached an agreement with the landowner. “It’s about identifying the right costs for the clean-up of the area ... If it’s going to cost €100m, it will be one of the most expensive industrial sites in Europe. We cannot have it that way.\n\n“We need some kind of support from local authorities. It’s not our pollution; it is historical pollution.”\n\nItalvolt paid a deposit of €1.2m to the current owner of the area, Italian fund manager Prelios, in September 2021, the company’s 2021 annual report shows, but the two parties are still negotiating the transfer of the area as of December 1.\n\nShould the land finally be acquired, “the rest of the project is fully [financially] furnished and engineered, we are ready to apply for the building permits”, Mr Carlstrom says, adding that the €1bn needed to build the factory has already been lined up. “As soon as we get issued the building permits, we can access the funds,” he insists.\n\nWhile he did not disclose the names of his financial backers, he did say the company is applying for funds from Italy’s recovery plan. However, he also conceded that “we will never get as much as Stellantis did in Termoli [where it received €370m to repurpose an existing site into a gigafactory] because we are building a factory in the northern part of Italy [the richest and the least likely to receive big incentives from the recovery fund].”\n\nItalvolt’s technology partner is also unknown as of December 1, although it is soon to be announced, Mr Carlstrom says, as he has regularly repeated since the inception of the project, adding that the company will use NMC811 technology, a type of chemistry used in next-generation batteries. The same applies to any possible customer and off-taker of Italvolt batteries. It also remains to be seen how the company will secure a supply of critical minerals to cater to the needs of the gigafactory, as well as electricity at convenient rates in a country that has traditionally had one of the highest power rates in Europe.\n\nWhile many of the project’s details are still vague, Italvolt’s 2021 annual report provides something a little more tangible: €6.92m of equity, mostly paid by Mr Carlstrom himself, one employee and one executive (Mr Carlstrom), along with a net loss of €855,000. At first glance, this is a lean structure for a €3.5bn project, but Mr Carlstrom pushes back on that.\n\n“Think of Britishvolt. They hired more than 300 people. That’s not really healthy for a start-up. At the same time, they also started developing their own technology, which is extremely costly. Both things are a huge mistake, and now the project is almost ruined. At Italvolt, we have been working in a different way where we are hiring consultants. We have about 50 consultants working for the company.”\n\nIn the meantime, the start of production has been pushed from the spring of 2024 to “late 2025” and the overall job creation reduced by a quarter to 3000 total direct jobs.\n\nMany other gigafactories around Europe are experiencing similar delays and trajectories, which raises credibility issue for the whole industry.\n\n“The whole narrative around European gigafactories is overhyped, which is not necessarily a bad thing,” says Nemanja Mikac, CEO of ElevenEs, a battery start-up based in Serbia, which is developing its product — lithium iron phosphate batteries — before putting together a gigafactory project. “But now that we are closer to delivery, things are getting critical. If the market sees deliveries are not arriving on time and on budget, there will be doubts ... It’s critical to show something, and few non-Asian companies are actually doing that.”\n\nIf the market sees deliveries are not arriving on time and on budget, there will be doubts. Nemanja Mikac\n\nCalifornia dreaming\n\nMr Carlstrom is still unfazed and oozes self-confidence. When automotive export Michael J. Dunne asked what keeps him up at night during a podcast released in September, he simply answered: “I actually sleep pretty well.”\n\nIn fact, he is still very active in chasing new opportunities for the battery industry even beyond Italy. In particular, he is looking at the hottest geography for EVs at the moment: the US.\n\n“In the absence of any further support from the EU, a shift to the US is what we are expecting,” says Mr Ferris, referring to the multi-billion incentive programmes the US administration has unlocked as part of the Inflation Reduction Act and other laws related to the security of strategic industries, such as EV batteries, which are shifting the attention of many in the battery space from Europe to the US.\n\nDespite their hiccups, his Britishvolt and Italvolt experiences were a springboard for Mr Carlstrom to launch Statevolt in southern California’s Imperial Valley. A $4bn, 54GWh “hyper local” gigafactory, it aims to leverage a local ecosystem able to provide the facility with geothermal energy, as well as lithium. Located in another deprived area, the usual flashy rendering of the future factory, combined with the promise of investment and job creation, has already won the local community over.\n\n“The county … believes this is another step towards fulfilling the potential of Lithium Valley for a better and brighter Imperial County,” the Calexico Chronicle reported Jesus Eduardo Escobar, chair of the Imperial Valley County board of supervisors, as saying when the project was announced in April.\n\nIn the grand scheme of the global battery industry, the long-term outcome of Mr Carlstrom’s projects matters little. If anything, at the moment there are more projects than the current supply of critical minerals can accommodate.\n\nBut for local communities, in particular for the kind of underinvested communities he has chosen to work with, any investment is better than none, even if it is only the promise of further investment.\n\nThis article first appeared in the December 2022/January 2023 print edition of fDi Intelligence."}...
