Article 1: {'title': 'Northvolt rolls out Europe’s first ‘gigafactory-era’ car battery', 'published_date': '2021-12-29 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Electric cars have gone mainstream in Europe – they accounted for nearly a fifth of all car purchases in the UK last month. Yet one piece has been missing up to now: European batteries.\n\nThat is now changing. On Tuesday night, Northvolt, a startup, produced its first lithium ion battery cell at a plant in northern Sweden. It is the first of a series of new factories that investors hope will allow Europe to carve out a big proportion of the electric vehicle market – and weaken the stranglehold built up by manufacturers in China, Japan and Korea.\n\nThe Northvolt Ett site will be the first European-owned plant to produce at so-called gigafactory scale. Gigafactories are generally considered to be those capable of producing enough batteries each year to provide about 15 gigawatt hours (GWh) of cumulative storage.\n\nOnly two large battery factories are operational in Europe, according to Benchmark Mineral Intelligence (BMI), a battery data company: a factory in Wrocław, Poland, run by Korea’s LG, and another owned by Korea’s Samsung near Budapest in Hungary.\n\nYet there are 25 gigafactories planned for the continent by 2030, according to BMI, as the industry races to keep up with soaring demand for electric cars. Nine of those are owned by Asian manufacturers, which control most of the global supply.\n\nThe UK is arguably further behind the rest of Europe, with plans for only two gigafactories. One will be a major expansion of a small battery plant in Sunderland by the Chinese company Envision, while the Glencore-backed startup Britishvolt is attempting to secure funding for a homegrown rival in nearby Blyth.\n\nLocal authorities in Coventry are trying to find a manufacturer for a third site at the local airport, but nobody has yet stepped forward – a situation that has cast a shadow over the prospects of the UK automotive sector as it strives to replace the declining internal combustion engine industry.\n\nSimon Moores, BMI’s chief executive, hailed Northvolt’s first cell as “Europe’s first gigafactory-era lithium ion battery”.\n\nDespite its startup status, Northvolt has gained heavyweight financial backing from Volkswagen, the world’s biggest car producer, and the investment bank Goldman Sachs. Its $2.75bn (£2.1bn) funding round in June valued it at $12bn.\n\nNorthvolt hopes to rapidly expand production at the plant at Skellefteå in northern Sweden to produce 60GWh a year – enough to supply batteries for a million electric cars. Commercial deliveries will start in the new year.\n\nSign up to the daily Business Today email or follow Guardian Business on Twitter at @BusinessDesk\n\nThe startup already boasts contracts worth $30bn with big European companies including the carmakers BMW, Volkswagen, Volvo Cars and Polestar, the truck manufacturer Scania, and the energy storage firm Fluence. Carmakers are belatedly ramping up electric vehicle production to meet tightening emissions targets as well as the challenge from their US rival, Tesla, which has built its own battery and car plant in Berlin.\n\nPeter Carlsson, Northvolt’s chief executive and co-founder, said the production of the lithium ion battery on Tuesday represented“a great milestone”.\n\n“Of course, this first cell is only the beginning,” he said. “Over the course of the coming years, we look forward to Northvolt Ett expanding its production capacity greatly to enable the European transition to clean energy.”'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Are you a robot?', 'published_date': '2021-12-29 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Why did this happen?\n\nPlease make sure your browser supports JavaScript and cookies and that you are not blocking them from loading. For more information you can review our Terms of Service and Cookie Policy.'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'Northvolt Ett', 'published_date': '2023-07-04 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': "At the Bergsbyn industrial area in Skellefteå, Northvolt Ett is being built. This is where Northvolt will have most of its production. The factory will be one of Europe's largest battery factories, producing the world's greenest lithium-ion batteries for electric cars and energy storage. The area is as large as 71 football fields and Northvolt's establishment will generate about 4,000 jobs in Skellefteå when the factory is fully completed in 2026.\n\nThe construction started in 2018 and is divided into stages. The first stage included four production buildings that were completed at the end of 2021.\n\nWhen the entire Northvolt Ett is in operation, the factory will be able to deliver batteries equivalent to 60-gigawatt hours per year, which is enough to manufacture about one million electric cars.\n\nBetween 2021 and 2022 new roads have been built adjacent to the area to create better traffic flows. An extension of Torsgatan from Northvolt to road 372 has been constructed, as well as a new roundabout from road 372 to the entrance of the area.\n\nTo ensure that employees feel safe cycling or walking to work, a new pedestrian and cycle path has been built. It runs parallel to Torsgatan and was completed in early 2023.\n\nOn site you can also find Revolt Ett, Europe's only large-scale recycling factory. It has he capacity to recycle materials needed for battery production and is the key to creating the world's greenest batteries.\n\nContractor\n\nNorthvolt"}...
Article 4: {'title': 'Northvolt starts delivering cells from Skellefteå factory', 'published_date': '2022-05-18 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Northvolt has started commercial deliveries of battery cells to a car manufacturer. It makes the Swedish start-up the first European firm that has managed to do so. And, they have made the shipments from the Ett factory in Skellefteå, Sweden, on schedule.\n\nProduction has only been running for a few months. Northvolt’s first battery cell factory in Sweden that is now delivering made the first cell in December as reported. Already then, the company was confident, naming the date as “a new chapter in European industrial history” as it would be the first battery cell “designed, developed and assembled entirely in a Gigafactory by a domestic European battery company”. Having managed that, production is expected to increase further this year.\n\nThe Northvolt Ett factory currently employs about 1,000 people, a company spokesperson told Bloomberg, prompting the news agency to add that Northvolt continues hiring about 150 new employees each month. The company expects the number of employees in North Sweden to rise to around 4,000 in the long term, up from an earlier estimate of 3,000.\n\nThe report made no mention of who Northvolt supplied with the first cells. However, their push answers a dire need across the European car industry. The company, founded by ex-Tesla VP for Supply chain, Peter Carlsson, has signed contracts with carmakers worth more than $50 billion so far, and Bloomberg suggests this may help the newcomers survive skyrocketing prices for raw materials. Among Northvolt’s customers are BMW, Volkswagen, Volvo Cars and Polestar. The cooperation with Volkswagen will for example see the factory in Skellefteå deliver the new “standard” cells to the Group. Previous plans to run a factory in Salzgitter together have been scrapped.\n\nIn addition, Northvolt recently received a grant of 155 million for its planned battery plant in Germany. Northvolt Three will be built in the town of Heide, close to the border of Denmark, and is to go into operation in 2025, employing up to 3,000 people. According to Northvolt, the envisioned 60 GWh capacity will be enough for around one million electric vehicles. The Northvolt Drei plant increases Northvolt’s total production capacity to 170 GWh.\n\nThe company also announced another cell factory in Sweden, not far from Volvo’s Torslanda plant, in partnership with Volvo Cars this April. This will be Northvolt’s third battery factory in Sweden. The company is refurbishing an old paper mill in Borlänge into a gigafactory to produce up to 100 GWh of cathode material as well as battery cells.\n\nA few days ago, Hydrovolt, Northvolt’s joint venture with Norsk Hydro, also commissioned its battery recycling plant in Fredrikstad, Norway.\n\nAdditional reporting by Nora Manthey.\n\ntwitter.com, bloomberg.com'}...
