Article 1: {'title': 'SVOLT confirms 2nd battery cell plant in Germany', 'published_date': '2022-09-10 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'SVOLT has confirmed building another cell factory for the European battery industry in Germany. The new site at Lauchhammer, Brandenburg, is a former wind turbine plant owned by Vestas. The company aims to repurpose it fast, by early 2025.\n\nThis is to make up for the delays SVOLT is now facing in Saarland. The Chinese company has been planning to produce battery cells in central Europe for some time and had confirmed factories in the German state of Saarland in November 2020. SVOLT aims to make cells near the town of Überherrn, close to a battery assembly in Heusweiler, also Saarland. However, the new plans in Brandenburg come on the back of said delays at the Saarland sites. We will come to these later.\n\nYet there are other reasons for Lauchhammer. Brandenburg, the state that surrounds Berlin, lies along the region’s supply chain and battery life cycle. There is, for example, the chemical company BASF which entered a partnership with SVOLT for battery materials and recycling at the end of 2021. BASF is currently building a cathode material factory, including a recycling pilot plant, in Schwarzheide, less than 7 kilometres from Lauchhammer.\n\nSVOLT is planning to start production in Brandenburg in early 2025, Maxim Hantsch-Kramskoj, VP of Sales & Marketing of SVOLT Europe, told journalists. The company targets an initial capacity of 16 GWh.\n\nThat sounds like construction will quick (and rushed). The former Vestas site is a so-called brownfield project. SVOLT says it took over the plant, including buildings and infrastructure, from the previous owner at the end of August and will now “repurpose the majority of the existing halls”. However, rebuilding measures and extension works will also be necessary and realised in the near future, so SVOLT. The company adds that it was developing a master plan including a detailed schedule for all modernisation and building measures.\n\nSVOLT sites in Saarland facing delays\n\nAt the same time, the construction of the Saarland sites will take much longer than planned. According to the Saarbrücker Zeitung paper, Kramskoy does not expect SVOLT to produce battery cells in Überherrn before 2027 – that is four years later than initially announced.\n\nEven though Heusweiler builds on an existing building like Brandenburg, there would also be delays at this second Saarland site for the assembly of modules and packs, the manager said. Production was supposed to start in the middle of this year with parts from other SVOLT plants. Now the company says it will only begin assembly by February 2024.\n\nHantsch-Kramskoj did not detail the reasons for the delay but pointed to the project being “very complex”. Following experts, they would now reach master planning. The Saarland sites would get the time they require, he said.\n\nSVOLT has to deliver, first from Brandenburg\n\nStill, SVOLT has to deliver another driver for selecting the Lauchhammer site reasonably quickly. So far, PSA is confirmed as a customer and signed an option for 7 GWh as reported.\n\nKai-Uwe Wollenhaupt, President of SVOLT Europe & VP of SVOLT Energy Technology, said he was happy that they were able to conclude the conversations with Vestas timely and take over the site.\n\nMirko Buhr, Mayor of the City of Lauchhammer, also went on to “explicitly thank all those involved for their dedicated efforts to bring a successor company to the former Vestas site as swiftly as possible.”\n\nThe site offers 255,000 square metres of space, and SVOLT has the right of first refusal on an adjacent free area of another 71,000 sqm.\n\nHantsch-Kramskoj referred to the project as a “gigafactory” when speaking to the local press. Even if put in Tesla-speak, the new factory won’t compare to the Tesla plant in Grünheide, about 150 kilometres away.\n\nAs for synergies between the plants in Brandenburg and Saarland, SVOLT expects to utilise battery cells produced in Lauchhammer at the future assembly site in Heusweiler. At least until the Saarland cell factory comes online. SVOLT aims to produce between 22 and 32 Gwh, double the 16 GWh in Brandenburg. That is batteries for about 300,000 to 500,000 e-vehicles per year.\n\nSVOLT has not disclosed which cells may be made in Brandenburg (and Saarland). However, the company has pushed cobalt-free battery cells since July 2019. These have undergone testing for at least two years now.\n\nPlus, the battery maker that came out of Great Wall Motors reportedly produced a prototype batch of 20 Ah cells with a solid electrolyte based on sulphide only a few weeks ago in China. The prototype solid-state cells have an energy density of 350-400 Wh/kg. This is in line with SVOLT’s earlier tests, and the result promises a range of over 1,000 kilometres for electric cars in future.\n\nsvolt-eu.com, saarbruecker-zeitung.de (delay Saarland, in German)'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'SVOLT builds additional battery cell factory in Brandenburg, Germany for European market', 'published_date': '2022-09-12 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Frankfurt am Main / Lauchhammer, Germany, September 9, 2022 – Today, SVOLT Energy Technology Co., Ltd. (SVOLT), a global high-tech company with headquarters in China and with a European office in Frankfurt am Main, announced that it will build another battery cell factory for the European market in Lauchhammer (district of Oberspreewald-Lausitz in the German State of Brandenburg at a press conference with Dr. Dietmar Woidke, Minister-President of the State of Brandenburg, Prof. Dr.-Ing. Jörg Steinbach, Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour and Energy of the State of Brandenburg, and Mirko Buhr, Mayor of the City of Lauchhammer.\n\nSVOLT is one of the global technology leaders for batteries and battery systems for electric vehicles as well as energy storage systems. After the planned site in the German State of Saarland with plants in Überherrn and Heusweiler, Lauchhammer in Brandenburg is the second announced SVOLT production site for battery cells in Germany. With its products, SVOLT aims to make a decisive contribution to the expansion of e-mobility and thereby to sustainable mobility overall.\n\nTakeover of the former Vestas site in Lauchhammer\n\nThe Lauchhammer site is available at short notice as a so-called brownfield project. Vestas, a manufacturer of wind turbines, had only recently ceased production of rotor blades there. SVOLT has taken over the plant including buildings and infrastructure from the previous owner at the end of August. For the planned battery cell factory, the majority of the existing halls will be optimally repurposed. However, due to specific requirements of SVOLT, rebuilding measures and extension works are also necessary. These are to be realized in the near future. Currently, SVOLT is developing a master plan for the project including a detailed schedule as well as the necessary rebuilding, modernization and extension measures.\n\nLocal investment – Global build-up of production capacity\n\nSVOLT is steadily expanding its global network of production sites as well as research and development locations. Battery factories are currently being established around the globe that will be among the most modern and sustainable in the world. The company ranks among the top 10 global manufacturers of vehicle batteries.\n\nSVOLT strengthens e-mobility cluster in Brandenburg\n\nThe battery cells produced in Lauchhammer will be further processed for the use in electric vehicles, including at the future SVOLT site in Heusweiler, Saarland. Thus, SVOLT will benefit from synergies between the plants in Heusweiler and Lauchhammer. The plant in Lauchhammer therefore marks another milestone following the module and high-voltage storage production facility in Heusweiler, which is also currently being set up. In this way, the site in Lauchhammer also contributes to SVOLT’s ability to serve current customer projects in a timely manner and to achieve its expanded capacity targets in Europe sooner.\n\nFor its new project in Germany, SVOLT has deliberately chosen Brandenburg as an innovation hub. In recent years, an innovative hub for electromobility has emerged in the region around Lauchhammer and throughout Brandenburg. Numerous companies along the supply chain and the battery lifecycle are located in the region – in the immediate proximity, for example BASF, with whom SVOLT entered into a partnership for cooperating on battery materials and their recycling at the end of 2021.\n\nAs an independent automotive supplier, SVOLT focuses on innovative batteries and battery systems. SVOLT has comprehensive expertise in producing batteries efficiently, safely and economically, therefore increasing the ranges of electronic vehicles continuously. In this way, SVOLT makes a decisive contribution to the expansion of electromobility. Its completely cobalt-free battery cell (NMX cell), which SVOLT is the first manufacturer in the world to mass-produce, is not only significantly more sustainable, but also more cost-effective than classic nickel-cobalt-manganese battery cells.\n\nStatements\n\nHongxin Yang, Chairman & CEO SVOLT Energy Technology: “The additional production site in Germany is an important milestone for the further expansion of SVOLT – in Europe, but also globally. I am looking forward to our planned battery factory contributing to the further expansion of sustainable electromobility in Europe. Both in Europe and in the Asia-Pacific region, we see a strong increase in demand for battery systems. The shift towards electromobility, but also government decisions, are driving demand for electric vehicles. SVOLT is responding to this market dynamic with steady expansion by building additional local capacities. Our sites close to our customers positively impact delivery routes and times – and thus the overall sustainability of electric vehicles.”\n\nKai-Uwe Wollenhaupt, President SVOLT Europe & Vice President SVOLT Energy Technology: “I am happy that we were able to conclude the conversations with Vestas timely and take over the site. For that, I would like to explicitly thank the management of Vestas and the local parties involved. With this additional site in Germany, we strengthen Brandenburg’s economy and the local battery production sector in Germany. We also make an active contribution to the Brandenburg e-mobility cluster and benefit from local supply chains and partners.”\n\nDr. Dietmar Woidke, Minister-President of the State of Brandenburg: “Good news in the midst of crisis-ridden times: The recently closed Vestas plant will start up again in the future. This investment fits in well with other e-mobility sites in Brandenburg. I am happy that SVOLT has recognized the potential of Brandenburg, the Lausitz region and the city of Lauchhammer and will set up here, further boosting structural development.”\n\nProf. Dr.-Ing. Jörg Steinbach, Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour and Energy of the State of Brandenburg: “This investment is a very good fit for the region, advancing the structural development in the Lausitz region with future-proof jobs and it is becoming increasingly apparent what an enormous attraction the region has for investors. I am also happy that SVOLT is giving Lauchhammer a new economic perspective with its site. For Brandenburg, this also means that the electromobility value chain is expended with yet another strong link.”\n\nMirko Buhr, Mayor of the City of Lauchhammer: “Lauchhammer has always been an important industrial and energy location. I would like to explicitly thank all those involved, in particular the Brandenburg Ministry of Economics and the engineering services provider GICON for their dedicated efforts to bring a successor company to the former Vestas site as swiftly as possible. I am convinced that SVOLT’s investment will not only maintain Lauchhammer’s tradition and status as a location for the energy sector, but that it will further strengthen it. The city of Lauchhammer will support SVOLT in providing optimal conditions for the production site and will always be a reliable point of contact.”\n\nSource: https://svolt-eu.com/en/svolt-builds-additional-battery-cell-factory-in-brandenburg-germany-for-european-market/'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'Svolt Builds Additional Battery Cell Factory in Brandenburg, Germany, for European Market', 'published_date': '2022-09-12 17:09:02+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'SVOLT builds additional battery cell factory in brandenburg, Germany, for European market.\n\nSVOLT Energy Technology Co., Ltd. (SVOLT), a global high-tech company with headquarters in China and with a European office in Frankfurt am Main, announced that it will build another battery cell factory for the European market in Lauchhammer (district of Oberspreewald-Lausitz in the German State of Brandenburg at a press conference with Dr. Dietmar Woidke, Minister-President of the State of Brandenburg, Prof. Dr.-Ing. Jörg Steinbach, Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour and Energy of the State of Brandenburg, and Mirko Buhr, Mayor of the City of Lauchhammer.\n\nSVOLT is one of the global technology leaders for batteries and battery systems for electric vehicles as well as energy storage systems. After the planned site in the German State of Saarland with plants in Überherrn and Heusweiler, Lauchhammer in Brandenburg is the second announced SVOLT production site for battery cells in Germany.\n\nWith its products, SVOLT aims to make a decisive contribution to the expansion of e-mobility and thereby to sustainable mobility overall.\n\nTakeover of the former Vestas site in Lauchhammer\n\nThe Lauchhammer site is available at short notice as a so-called brownfield project. Vestas, a manufacturer of wind turbines, had only recently ceased production of rotor blades there. SVOLT has taken over the plant including buildings and infrastructure from the previous owner at the end of August.\n\nFor the planned battery cell factory, the majority of the existing halls will be optimally repurposed. However, due to specific requirements of SVOLT, rebuilding measures and extension works are also necessary.\n\nThese are to be realized in the near future. Currently, SVOLT is developing a master plan for the project including a detailed schedule as well as the necessary rebuilding, modernization and extension measures.\n\nLocal investment – Global build-up of production capacity\n\nSVOLT is steadily expanding its global network of production sites as well as research and development locations. Battery factories are currently being established around the globe that will be among the most modern and sustainable in the world. The company ranks among the top 10 global manufacturers of vehicle batteries.\n\nSVOLT strengthens e-mobility cluster in Brandenburg\n\nThe battery cells produced in Lauchhammer will be further processed for the use in electric vehicles, including at the future SVOLT site in Heusweiler, Saarland. Thus, SVOLT will benefit from synergies between the plants in Heusweiler and Lauchhammer.\n\nThe plant in Lauchhammer therefore marks another milestone following the module and high-voltage storage production facility in Heusweiler, which is also currently being set up. In this way, the site in Lauchhammer also contributes to SVOLT’s ability to serve current customer projects in a timely manner and to achieve its expanded capacity targets in Europe sooner.\n\nFor its new project in Germany, SVOLT has deliberately chosen Brandenburg as an innovation hub. In recent years, an innovative hub for electromobility has emerged in the region around Lauchhammer and throughout Brandenburg.\n\nNumerous companies along the supply chain and the battery lifecycle are located in the region – in the immediate proximity, for example BASF, with whom SVOLT entered into a partnership for cooperating on battery materials and their recycling at the end of 2021.\n\nAs an independent automotive supplier, SVOLT focuses on innovative batteries and battery systems. SVOLT has comprehensive expertise in producing batteries efficiently, safely and economically, therefore increasing the ranges of electronic vehicles continuously.\n\nIn this way, SVOLT makes a decisive contribution to the expansion of electromobility. Its completely cobalt-free battery cell (NMX cell), which SVOLT is the first manufacturer in the world to mass-produce, is not only significantly more sustainable, but also more cost-effective than classic nickel-cobalt-manganese battery cells.\n\nStatements\n\nHongxin Yang, Chairman & CEO SVOLT Energy Technology:\n\nThe additional production site in Germany is an important milestone for the further expansion of SVOLT – in Europe, but also globally.\n\n“I am looking forward to our planned battery factory contributing to the further expansion of sustainable electromobility in Europe. Both in Europe and in the Asia-Pacific region, we see a strong increase in demand for battery systems. The shift towards electromobility, but also government decisions, are driving demand for electric vehicles.”\n\n“SVOLT is responding to this market dynamic with steady expansion by building additional local capacities. Our sites close to our customers positively impact delivery routes and times – and thus the overall sustainability of electric vehicles.”\n\nKai-Uwe Wollenhaupt, President SVOLT Europe & Vice President SVOLT Energy Technology:\n\nI am happy that we were able to conclude the conversations with Vestas timely and take over the site.\n\n“For that, I would like to explicitly thank the management of Vestas and the local parties involved. With this additional site in Germany, we strengthen Brandenburg’s economy and the local battery production sector in Germany. We also make an active contribution to the Brandenburg e-mobility cluster and benefit from local supply chains and partners.”\n\nDr. Dietmar Woidke, Minister-President of the State of Brandenburg:\n\nGood news in the midst of crisis-ridden times: The recently closed Vestas plant will start up again in the future.\n\n“This investment fits in well with other e-mobility sites in Brandenburg. I am happy that SVOLT has recognized the potential of Brandenburg, the Lausitz region and the city of Lauchhammer and will set up here, further boosting structural development.”\n\nProf. Dr.-Ing. Jörg Steinbach, Minister for Economic Affairs, Labour and Energy of the State of Brandenburg:\n\nThis investment is a very good fit for the region, advancing the structural development in the Lausitz region with future-proof jobs and it is becoming increasingly apparent what an enormous attraction the region has for investors.\n\n“I am also happy that SVOLT is giving Lauchhammer a new economic perspective with its site. For Brandenburg, this also means that the electromobility value chain is expended with yet another strong link.”\n\nMirko Buhr, Mayor of the City of Lauchhammer:\n\nLauchhammer has always been an important industrial and energy location.\n\n“I would like to explicitly thank all those involved, in particular the Brandenburg Ministry of Economics and the engineering services provider GICON for their dedicated efforts to bring a successor company to the former Vestas site as swiftly as possible.”\n\n“I am convinced that SVOLT’s investment will not only maintain Lauchhammer’s tradition and status as a location for the energy sector, but that it will further strengthen it. The city of Lauchhammer will support SVOLT in providing optimal conditions for the production site and will always be a reliable point of contact.”\n\nSVOLT BUILDS ADDITIONAL BATTERY CELL FACTORY IN BRANDENBURG, GERMANY, FOR EUROPEAN MARKET, Frankfurt am Main / Lauchhammer, Germany, September 9, 2022'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'SVOLT Lands Its Second Overseas Factory in Germany as It Sprints Towards 600GWh Capacity Target', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'As the global NEV market maintains fast-pace growth, Chinese battery suppliers have begun overseas expansions in order to round out their development strategies and gain more market share. After CATL had announced on September 5 that its second factory in Europe will land in Hungary and entail an investment of CNY 50.9 billion, SVOLT confirmed on September 9 that its second overseas factory will be located in Germany.\n\nSVOLT already unveiled a plan to establish two production sites in Germany in 2020. The development of the first factory began in November of that year. Located in Heusweiler, Saarland, this plant is still being built and will be used to assemble battery packs once it is fully set up. As for the second factory, SVOLT said it will be located Lauchhammer, Brandenburg. The site for this plant was actually formerly used to manufacture wind turbines. SVOLT will transform the defunct facility buildings so that they will manufacture battery cells instead.\n\nThe decision to place the second factory in Brandenburg has to do with the formation of a local EV industry cluster in the recent years. BASF and many other companies that are involved in the supply chain for Li-ion batteries have all set up shops in the state. In 2021, SVOLT and BASF formed a strategic partnership in the fields of battery materials and battery recycling.\n\nAccording to the company’s plan for Germany, the factory in Brandenburg will supply battery cells to the factory in Saarland, where the assembly and installation of EV battery packs will take place. SVOLT pointed out that both plants have a geographical advantage. They are thus able to serve European customers more effectively with respect to project implementation. The two plants will also enable SVOLT to rapidly scale up its production capacity in Europe.\n\nEstablished in December 2016, SVOLT was originally a business unit under Great Wall Motor. It was formally separated from its parent and became an independently operated company in 2018. Due to the rapid growth of its EV battery business, SVOLT at the end of 2021 rolled out the target of attaining a global total production capacity of 600GWh per year by 2025.\n\nHence, SVOLT has been very aggressive with respect to capacity expansion. Earlier on, the company made plans to build battery production bases in the Yangtze Delta, South China, and West China. Now, it set sights on Europe. The latest project in Brandenburg represents another big step forward in its global expansion.\n\nLooking at other suppliers for EV batteries, CATL has also recently unveiled its plan for a second factory in Europe. On September 5, CATL and the government of Debrecen, which is the second largest city in Hungary, inked a land pre-purchasing agreement. With this deal, CATL has officially initiated the construction of its second battery factory in Europe. CATL’s first factory in the region is in the German state of Thuringia. Its construction phase began in 2019, and its operation phase is scheduled to commence before the end of this year. As for the second factory, it will be located in the Debrecen Industrial Park, and its construction phase will begin this year. CATL said the total investment in the second factory will reach around CNY 50.9 billion (EUR 7.34 billion). Spanning an area of 221 hectares, the second factory will have a production capacity of 100GWh per year. Carmakers including BMW will be among the customers first served by this plant.\n\nMarket intelligence firm TrendForce points out that in addition to CATL and SVOLT, many other Chinese battery suppliers have made plans to build overseas factories. EVE will build a factory for manufacturing cylindrical batteries in Hungary. Envision AESC will build a factory for manufacturing EV batteries in Spain. BYD, too, is raising funds to set up its first overseas battery production plant, which is intended to be located in Europe. Likewise, CALB, Gotion High-Tech, Farasis Energy, and Sunwoda have either launched or considering overseas manufacturing projects.\n\nBesides Europe, North America is also getting increasing attention from Chinese battery suppliers. Envision AESC has presented a plan for a gigafactory in the US. Gotion High-Tech is reported to be in discussion to set up a joint venture through which it will build a factory in the US. CATL previously expressed interest in building a factory in Kentucky, but this project has been postponed.\n\nThere are several factors motivating Chinese battery suppliers to set up production capacity outside their home country. First, the rapid growth of the global NEV market has been beneficial for Chinese battery suppliers and is encouraging them to pursue overseas expansions in order to improve their international competitiveness. Moreover, having a presence in other countries will generate more brand recognition and thereby create opportunities for gaining more market share. Lastly, Chinese battery suppliers want to have battery production sites near their major overseas clients. This will lower the cost of transporting products and put suppliers in a more proactive position in contract negotiations and capturing orders.\n\nWhile building overseas factories could result in gaining a greater share of the global market, TrendForce notes that are there also risks, including unforeseen ones, with this approach. Investment cost, geopolitics, environmental regulations, industrial policies, and cultural differences are some of the many issues that Chinese battery suppliers need to consider when planning to set up shops in other countries.\n\nThis article is a translation of a Chinese article written by Marry at TrendForce. It contains information that is either sourced from other news outlets or accessible in the public domain. Some Chinese names are transcribed into English using Hanyu Pinyin.\n\n(Image: SVOLT)'}...
