Article 1: {'title': 'Verkor selects Dunkirk for its first Gigafactory', 'published_date': '2022-02-01 17:15:00+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Press release, Uncategorized\n\nFrench industrial company Verkor announces the selection of the port city of Dunkirk (Hauts de France) for the construction of its first Gigafactory for the development of low-carbon battery cells designed to support Europe’s net-zero goals.\n\nFirst delivery of low-carbon high performance batteries for electric vehicles scheduled for July 2025 to be manufactured in Dunkirk\n\nManufacturing capacity to expand from 16 GWh in 2025 to 50 GWh by 2030.\n\nThe announcement marks a significant milestone for Verkor, founded in 2020, realising the company’s vision and accelerating its goals for battery development. Dunkirk is the most promising site out of the 40 investigated by Verkor in France, Spain and Italy. Spanning more than 150 hectares, the site will meet growing demand from European and international car manufacturers, as the roll-out of high-performance electric vehicles continues to gather pace across the continent.\n\nThe site meets all the requirements for a Gigafactory in terms of land, logistics, energy capacity, proximity to customers, access to a qualified workforce, and scalability. Up to 1,200 direct jobs and more than 3,000 indirect jobs are expected to be generated during the first phase of the project. The Verkor Gigafactory in Dunkirk will create a new ecosystem of players and solutions to support the development of Europe’s battery value chain. The high performance, low carbon batteries from Verkor’s site will contribute to the continued excellence and innovation of the French and European automotive industry.\n\nOnce operational, the Gigafactory will supply several customers, and most notably Renault Group after signing a strategic partnership with Verkor last summer.\n\nBenoit Lemaignan, CEO of Verkor: “We are eager now to work with our partners to unite all the winning conditions to build the best battery-cell factory in the world. Dunkirk is the best choice among many other great opportunities, and I really want to thank all the people in the territories, as well as our partners including Groupe IDEC, who supported us in this process.”\n\nVerkor and the French National Commission for Public Debate are now moving forward with the national consultation process for the site.\n\nAgnès Pannier-Runacher, the French Minister of Industry: “Mastering the entire battery value chain is critical to the transition to electric mobility. I welcome this new important step by Verkor. Their choice of location reinforces “the electric battery valley” that is taking shape in the Hauts de France, as well as its dynamic ecosystem. It sends a positive signal to Dunkirk’s industrial platform, which has key assets in the sector. Verkor, like many players in the value chain, can rely on the Government’s ongoing support under the France 2030 plan.”\n\nThe construction of the Gigafactory is scheduled to begin in 2023. Research and development will continue to be based out of Grenoble where the construction of the Verkor Innovation Centre (VIC) is already under way. The innovations developed there will be a prelude to the manufacturing excellence of Verkor’s first Gigafactory.\n\nAbout Verkor\n\nFounded in July 2020, Verkor is a French industrial company based in Grenoble. With the backing of EIT InnoEnergy, Groupe IDEC, Schneider Electric, Capgemini, Renault Group, EQT Ventures, Arkema, Tokai COBEX and FMET managed by Demeter. Verkor will ramp up low-carbon battery manufacturing in France and southern Europe to meet the growing demand for electric vehicles — and electric mobility as a whole — and stationary storage in Europe.\n\nVerkor is developing an enticing business model based on agility, sustainability and governance that is attracting the best talents from around the world. Its strong and agile team continues to grow as new challenges arise. Verkor is leading a unifying project that brings together the best partners for establishing the entire value chain in Europe and ensuring the optimal use of skills and resources. Verkor will draw on these strengths to open its entirely digital 4.0 pilot line in 2022. A model of excellence, competitiveness and resource efficiency, this innovation will be integrated into the Gigafactory due for construction in 2024.\n\nMore information on www.verkor.com'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'Verkor starts construction of battery cell factory in Dunkirk', 'published_date': '2023-11-17 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'The plant will be built in the port of Dunkirk and is expected to contribute to the creation of around 1,200 direct and 3,000 indirect jobs. Expanding capacity from an initial 16 GWh to 50 GWh is planned by 2030. In September, Verkor received more than two billion euros in fresh capital, which will be used to construct the battery cell factory in Dunkirk and its research and development activities in Grenoble.\n\nThe primary customer for the battery cells will be the Renault Group. The car manufacturer entered into a strategic partnership with Verkor in 2021, converted into a commercial partnership, i.e. a binding supply contract, in April 2023. Together, the companies want to develop and manufacture high-performance batteries for Renault electric cars from the C segment upwards and for Alpine models. According to the announcement from the summer, Renault intends to purchase ten GWh from Verkor from 2026, and then 20 GWh from 2030.\n\nMeanwhile, Verkor’s research and development is based in Grenoble. It is where the Verkor Innovation Centre (VIC) is located, which started operations at the end of June 2023.\n\n“Dunkirk was not chosen by chance. We can feel the creative energy of all the players involved in this project, inspiring us, and pushing us forward! Today marks a decisive step for Verkor, of course, but also for the European energy transition and the reindustrialisation of France” says Benoit Lemaignan, CEO of Verkor.\n\nAnd the Verkor site will deliver much more than just low-carbon batteries. “The laying of this foundation stone is a concrete expression of our determination to accelerate the decarbonisation of transport by building a resilient and sustainable European battery value chain,” Lemaignan adds.\n\nDunkirk is thus becoming an ever-larger battery hub. A battery cell factory from ProLogium, a battery recycling plant from Eramet and Suez, and a cathode material plant from XTC and Orano are also being built there – and Envision’s battery factory in Douai, which is currently under construction, is not far away either.\n\nverkor.com'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'Verkor l Batteries. Now. For the future. l Production de batteries', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Verkor secures more than €2 billion to launch high performance battery gigafactory in France and accelerate future sustainable mobility\n\n14 September 2023 – Verkor secures more than €2 billion in financing following the signing of a minimum of €850m Series C funding1 , approval of European Investment Bank for €600m debt support and French subsidies for an amount around €650m, subject to final approval by the European Commission. This financing will accelerate: the construction of Verkor’s first gigafactory, in Dunkirk, and the manufacture of highperformance low-carbon battery cells, ongoing technological developments at the Verkor Innovation Centre (VIC) for new manufacturing technologies and new state-of-the-art product, strategic investments across the battery value chain, thereby generating thousands of direct and…'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'Verkor marks new milestone in future of sustainable mobility, laying the foundation stone of its Gigafactory', 'published_date': '2023-11-16 18:01:00+00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Press release, Uncategorized\n\nDunkirk – 16 November 2023 – Verkor, joined by the Prime Minister and other members of Government, laid the foundation stone of its Gigafactory aimed to produce low carbon, high-performance electric batteries for sustainable mobility. An event made possible by the European Commission’s validation of French support of 659 million euros for Verkor’s development activities and direct and indirect support for the project of up to €600 million from the European Investment Bank, subject to final approval, as part of the €2 billion financing package announced by Verkor last September.\n\nIn the presence of Prime Minister Elisabeth Borne, Minister of Energy Transition Agnès Pannier-Runacher, Delegate Minister of Housing and President of the Urban Community of Dunkirk, Patrice Vergriete, President of the Hauts-de-France region Xavier Bertrand and Ambroise Fayolle, Vice-President of the EIB, Verkor officially inaugurated the construction of the Gigafactory located in Dunkirk. The event highlights Verkor’s determination to advance quickly and concretely develop a European, resilient and sustainable battery value chain.\n\nVerkor’s Gigafactory will be operational by 2025 with an initial production capacity of 16GWh/year. Located in the Port of Dunkirk, it will contribute to the creation of approximately 1200 jobs and 3000 indirect jobs. The industrial project positions Verkor as a major partner for mobility and stationary storage players, developing high-performance, low-carbon batteries in Europe, in favour of the energy transition.\n\nThe construction of this European production site for high-density, high-performance, low carbon batteries for electric vehicles and stationary storage is made possible through the financial support of multiple stakeholders.\n\nLast September, Verkor announced the company had secured 2 billion euros in funding through a Series-C of €850m, direct and indirect banking support for the project of up to €600m from the European Investment Bank (subject to final approval), and national subsidies of approximately €650m recently approved by the European Commission in the context of the state aid framework for research and development and innovation (RDI framework).\n\nThe Hauts-de-France Region and the Urban Community of Dunkirk are also financing €60m and €30m respectively.\n\nBenoit Lemaignan, CEO of Verkor said: “Dunkirk was not chosen by chance. We can feel the creative energy of all the players involved in this project, inspiring us, and pushing us forward! Today marks a decisive step for Verkor, of course, but also for the European energy transition and the reindustrialisation of France. Providing thousands of jobs in France, the Verkor site will supply much more than just low-carbon batteries. The laying of this foundation stone is a concrete expression of our determination to accelerate the decarbonisation of transport by building a resilient and sustainable European battery value chain.”\n\nPatrice Vergriete, Delegate Minister of Housing and President of the Urban Community of Dunkirk, declares: “This investment marks an important step in the establishment of the French electric battery champion in our region, which alone will create 1,200 direct jobs by 2025. A symbol of the Dunkirk area’s renewed attractiveness since its official opening in February 2022, this project reinforces the development model we have been promoting since 2014 for a low-carbon industry of the future.”\n\nXavier Bertrand, President of the Hauts-de-France Region said: “Verkor’s new site is very good news for the Hauts-de-France region. Because it will create jobs, of course, but also because it is recognition of our economic strategy and our commitment to Rev3, the third industrial revolution. Here, we manufacture batteries, but not only batteries. Here, we manufacture the future, we manufacture confidence, we manufacture optimism. This is the real challenge of this plant, the real challenge of the economic and industrial transformation of our region. But it’s also about job creation. In addition to the 60-million-euro investment to build the plant, the Region is also investing in training. 80 million for 2023 alone, with an original program called Electro’Mob that will enable us to meet this challenge. Welcome to Verkor in Hauts-de-France.”\n\nAmbroise Fayolle, Vice-President of the European Investment Bank said: “As the European Union’s Climate Bank, the EIB is fully committed to the promotion of an autonomous, strategic and competitive Europe. After the recent financing of several other electric battery projects like Northvolt’s pioneer Gigafactory in Sweden, and the support of Verkor in the financing of its innovation centre in Grenoble, the EIB is proud to contribute to the construction of this new site of a budding, transformative automotive sector in the Hauts-de-France region. This support is further proof of our commitment in favour of European players, who, like Verkor, are slated to become leaders in this new ecosystem of clean, no-carbon mobility.”'}...
