Article 1: {'title': 'Gigafactory Valencia: PowerCo gives starting signal for construction of second cell factory', 'published_date': 'None', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'PowerCo SE is taking the next step in building its global battery business: In the Spanish region of Valencia, the company today gave the starting signal for construction of its second PowerCo cell factory in the presence of His Majesty King Felipe VI, Spain’s President Pedro Sánchez and Ximo Puig, President of the Valencian Generalitat. Gigafactory Valencia will start production of the unified cell in 2026 and will directly employ more than 3,000 people in the future, with a further up to 30,000 indirect jobs potentially being created at suppliers and partners in Spain according to a recent study. The Volkswagen Group has made battery technology a core element of its NEW AUTO strategy and has established PowerCo, a separate battery company. Since its launch in July 2022, PowerCo has decided three sites for cell factories: Salzgitter, Valencia and St. Thomas in Ontario/Canada, two of them already under construction.'}...
Article 2: {'title': 'PowerCo secures land for Volkswagen’s next battery factory', 'published_date': '2023-01-12 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Volkswagen’s plans for a battery cell factory in Spain have entered the next phase by purchasing a plot of land. PowerCo, the Group’s battery division, has signed the papers and was ready to invest €63 mn to buy 130 hectares in Sagunt, near Valencia.\n\nPowerCo CEO Frank Blome announced the deal first on LinkedIn. The Spanish newspaper El Pais later found out how much the Volkswagen Group subsidiary had paid for the areal in Parc Sagunt II. Still, the €63 million spent on the land are just a tiny part of no less than ten billion euros Volkswagen has budgeted to invest along the entire e-mobility value chain in Spain.\n\nPlans for the battery cell factory in Sagunt were confirmed in March 2022. PowerCo aims for 40 GWh capacity per year and plans to employ more than 3,000 people.\n\nThe PowerCo gigafactory, therefore, has been declared part of a Strategic Territorial Project (PTE) by the council of the Generalitat Valenciana. The Valencian President, Ximo Puig, pointed out that signing the agreement was an “essential step in the process initiated by the Volkswagen Group for its industrial plan and a milestone for the future of the economy of the Valencian Community”. The industrial estate Sagunt II is well connected to motorways, a port and a railway line.\n\nAs reported, PowerCo will begin construction this quarter, with production to kick off in 2026.\n\nSagunt will thus become the second “gigafactory” in the Volkswagen Group network, next to the identical battery plant in Salzgitter, Germany. The plant in Skellefteå will be overseen by Northvolt in Sweden. PowerCo has already mentioned focusing on Eastern Europe to install another factory but has yet to release information on the PowerCo battery factories five and six.\n\nPowerCo and its latest partner Umicore reportedly aim to supply production materials for 160 gigawatt-hours of cell capacity per year starting in 2015. As Volkswagen calculates, this corresponds to an annual production capacity sufficient for around 2.2 million fully electric vehicles.\n\nAs for Spain, Volkswagen Group, primarily through its Spanish brand Seat, aims to make the country a major European production centre for electric vehicles and batteries. The battery plant in Sagunt will be flanked by vehicle plants in Martorell (near Barcelona) and Pamplona.\n\nMartorell may make the small electric car Cupra Raval and another small VW electric car called ID.2 once confirmed. The two models shall replace the current Seat Ibiza and the VW Polo.\n\nThe Pamplona plant will build the VW ID.2 X crossover variant and the offshoot for Skoda, called Elroq. These new models correspond to the current VW T-Cross and Skoda Kamiq. The Group targets entry prices of all these small electric cars between 20,000 to 25,000 euros.\n\nAround 60 companies associated with Volkswagen are participating in the Spanish projects. Volkswagen Group had also secured a considerable share of funding through the PERTE electric vehicle programme and received nearly 400 million euros in public aid.\n\nIn Sagunt, PowerCo will next open an office and has appointed Thomas Dahlem and Javier Rivera Jornet as members of the board of directors of Power HoldCo Spain, according to CEO Frank Blome. The new staff “will lead the Valencia gigafactory as a central project for transforming the Spanish automotive industry”.\n\nVolkswagen established PowerCo to consolidate activities along the value chain for batteries, including processing raw materials, developing the unified Volkswagen battery, and managing the European gigafactories.\n\nelpais.com (in Spanish), linkedin.com (Frank Blome)'}...
Article 3: {'title': 'VW plans to open Spanish battery plant near Valencia in 2026', 'published_date': '2022-03-23 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': '[1/2] A Volkswagen logo is seen as it launches its ID.6 and ID.6 CROZZ SUV at a world premiere ahead of the Shanghai Auto Show, in Shanghai, China April 18, 2021. REUTERS/Aly Song Acquire Licensing Rights\n\nSummary\n\nCompanies VW to invest 7 bln euros on electrifying Spanish production\n\nFord could join VW\'s project as customer or partner\n\nInvestment depends on securing government funds\n\nBARCELONA, March 23 (Reuters) - Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE) has picked a site near Valencia for a planned battery cell plant in Spain, which could include U.S. carmaker Ford (F.N) as a customer or partner, but the project depends on receiving government funds, it said on Wednesday.\n\nThe German carmaker aims to begin series production at the 40 gigawatt-hour (GWh) plant by 2026, meaning construction would need to start this year.\n\nSpain, Europe\'s largest carmaker after Germany, last week launched a bidding process for around 3 billion euros ($3.3 billion) - around half in grants - to promote electric vehicle (EV) production, with Volkswagen and its Spanish unit SEAT readying a bid. Winners will be chosen this year.\n\nIf it does not receive PERTE funds - as the programme, consisting mostly of European Union pandemic relief funds, is called - the plant "wouldn\'t be competitive" and Volkswagen would look at alternatives, SEAT\'s chairman Wayne Griffiths told Reuters.\n\n"The European funds allow us to do a lot of things in Spain that probably would not have been done as early ... it has pulled ahead the decision on electrification for instance by about 10 years," he said.\n\nVolkswagen said it would invest, with suppliers, over 7 billion euros ($7.7 billion) in the plant and in starting EV production at two Spanish factories.\n\nAutomakers are racing to build battery plants to power their growing electric fleets, with a focus among European carmakers on reducing dependence on Asia.\n\nVolkswagen aims to build six large battery factories across Europe by 2030.\n\nThe first plant by Northvolt in Sweden, in which Volkswagen holds a 20% stake, will begin production in 2022. A second in Germany will be built by 2025 with China\'s Gotion High-Tech (002074.SZ), in which Volkswagen owns 26%. read more\n\nPartners for the Spanish plant have not been chosen, but the planned location of Sagunto is close to a Ford production site.\n\nAsked if Ford could be a customer or have a stake in the plant, SEAT\'s chairman said both were possibilities.\n\nA Ford spokesperson in Spain said it was evaluating its European production amid growing demand for EVs and had not decided whether to apply for PERTE aid.\n\nFord does not currently make EVs in Valencia. It announced last week seven new electric models for Europe and a battery-assembly site in Germany, deepening an existing partnership with Volkswagen to produce a second EV for the European market based on the German firm\'s platform. read more\n\n($1 = 0.9079 euros)\n\nReporting by Joan Faus in Barcelona, Victoria Waldersee in Berlin Editing by Inti Landauro and Mark Potter\n\nOur Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.'}...
Article 4: {'title': 'VW starts battery plant construction in Valencia and plans third party sales', 'published_date': '2023-03-17 00:00:00', 'keywords': [], 'text': 'Volkswagen has now officially given the go-ahead for the construction of the second battery cell factory of its subsidiary PowerCo in Valencia. Volkswagen is also said to be considering stakes in raw material mines and the sale of its battery cells to other customers.\n\nFirst to Valencia: The key data of the gigafactory design there were already known before, and are now confirmed. Construction of the battery plant will start as planned in the first quarter of 2023, the annual production capacity for manufacturing the ‘unit cell’ is expected to be 40 gigawatt hours, the site will create more than 3,000 direct jobs and production will start in 2026. However, Volkswagen now, on the occasion of the start of construction, also mentions that the manufacturing facility could be expanded to 60 GWh and that up to 30,000 indirect jobs would be initiated with suppliers and partners in Spain.\n\nThe cell factory itself will be located in Sagunt – in the immediate vicinity of Valencia on an area of around 130 hectares. Together with the planned supplier park, which will be built parallel to the PowerCo factory, the area amounts to 200 hectares, according to Volkswagen. The Volkswagen subsidiary plans to supply the cell factory entirely with green electricity from the sun and wind. To this end, among other things, a 250-hectare solar park is being built near the plant. In addition, Volkswagen states that “in the long term” the raw material cycle will be closed directly on the site of the cell factory. This means that capacities for recycling and reprocessing will also be created on site.\n\nSince its founding in July 2022, Volkswagen subsidiary PowerCo has identified three locations for cell factories: Salzgitter, Valencia and St. Thomas in Ontario, Canada. Two of these are already under construction, namely the one in Salzgitter and now also the one near Valencia. In the supply chain for electric car production, the Valencia plant is to close an important gap. In the future, it will “supply the vehicle plants in Martorell and Pamplona, among others, with unit cells,” according to the Wolfsburg-based company.\n\nAs is well known, the local cell production is part of a 10-billion-euro investment by Volkswagen, Seat and other partners in Spain, which in return is accompanied by a large government subsidy. Ergo, Spain’s Prime Minister Pedro Sánchez also came to the groundbreaking ceremony. “The factory that will be built here exemplifies the Spanish Government’s commitment to innovation and sustainable mobility. It is a sign of our commitment to industry, but also to the characteristics that define an entrepreneurial nation in the global market: innovation, territorial cohesion and public-private cooperation,” he is quoted as saying.\n\nMeanwhile Thomas Schmall, Volkswagen Group board member for Group Technology and chairman of the supervisory board of PowerCo, commented that Volkswagen is planning to acquire stakes in raw material mines and to sell its battery cells to third parties. This is intended first and foremost to reduce costs. That fits with Volkswagen’s presentation of a 25,000-euro electric car to be sold in Europe starting in 2025, which gained global attention this week.\n\nBut Volkswagen’s plans for its PowerCo subsidiary go further. Schmall is quoted as saying that the goal is to cover half of the company’s own needs through in-house production and to sell to third-party customers in parallel. Ford has apparently been identified as a customer: PowerCo will begin supplying cells to Ford for the 1.2 million vehicles the US automaker is building in Europe on Volkswagen’s electric MEB platform, according to the Reuters report.\n\nSchmall also expresses Volkswagen’s intention to invest directly in mines – but without giving further details. So far, the company has secured its supply of raw materials until 2026 and will decide in the coming months how to meet its needs from then on, the chief technology officer said. Volkswagen wants to “become a global battery supplier,” he said. And, “In the future, there will be a select number of battery standards. With our large volume and third-party sales, we want to be one of those standards.” Production is scheduled to start in Salzgitter in 2025, Valencia in 2026 and Ontario in 2027. Four more battery cell plants are to be built in Europe alone.\n\nThere is no official statement from Volkswagen itself on the latter facts. However, the communication on the laying of the foundation stone near Valencia contains passages that appear in a different light in light of Schmall’s interview statements: For example, the Wolfsburg company announces that PowerCo should generate annual sales of over 20 billion euros by 2030 – it is unlikely that this does not include the business model with third-party sales mentioned above.\n\nMoreover, Schmall is also quoted in the official announcement as saying that “We are moving into the fast lane with PowerCo”. And: “Our objective is to make PowerCo a global player in the battery business and pave the way for better mobility with sustainably manufactured battery cells. The gigafactory Valencia is an important milestone in that.”\n\nvolkswagen-newsroom.com, reuters.com'}...
